


















                           CAST AWAY


                              by

                        William Broyles
























                                               THIRD DRAFT

                                               March 13, 1998




FADE IN:

EXT.  MARFA, TEXAS - 1993 - WIDE - DAY

The Texas plains, horizon to horizon, nothing but the browns
and ochres of earth and the blue and violet of the sky.  The
sheer scope of it sinks in:  the blank slate of nature, the
absence of man.  On the screen superimpose:

                    MARFA, TEXAS, 1993.

CREDITS BEGIN.

A plume of dust comes into frame.  The dust is from a TRUCK,
orange and white and violet, with "FedEx" blazoned across the
side.

The truck turns into a collection of ramshackle World War II
era Quonset huts and outbuildings.  Around the outbuildings
are large sculptures of wood and metal.

EXT.  QUONSET HUT - DAY

The door is opened by a WOMAN in her late twenties.  Hair
pulled back, casual, an artist.  She hands the DRIVER a FedEx
BOX which is decorated with a drawing of two ANGEL WINGS.
The Driver has a hand-held computer; a portable printer
dangles from his belt.

The Driver scans the package with his hand-held computer,
prints out a label and sticks it on the Box, ready to go.
But something on the box catches her eye.  She wants it back.
He glances at his watch.  She draws RINGS around the Wings,
uniting them.  She gives the box to the Driver, then hands
him a cup of coffee.  They've done this before.

He takes a sip of the coffee, then runs for the truck.  He
jumps in and heads back onto the plains.

EXT.  FEDEX OFFICE - MIDLAND/ODESSA - NIGHT - HOURS LATER

The Driver jams the distinctive Angel Wing Box on top of a
dolly and loads it into a CONTAINER with clear plastic sides.
A female Loader slaps a large bar code label on the
container, scans it, then pulls the container across a belt
of rollers onto a larger truck.  The doors of the truck
close.  The latch slams down.

A forklift hoists the container to the cargo doors of a 737.

EXT.  MEMPHIS AIRPORT SUPERHUB - NIGHT

The 737 lands.

EXT.  SUPERHUB - NIGHT - MINUTES LATER

One of a seemingly endless line of FedEx planes, our 737
taxis to a gate at the FedEx SUPERHUB.  The Hub is a vast
living organism -- loud, complex, overwhelming, as much a
symbol of modern life as was the factory in Modern Times.

Five thousand people work in a frenzy of interconnected
activity inside three vast hangers brightly lit.  Hundreds of
forklifts and cargo-pullers dart about, their headlights
crisscrossing like a laser show.

Loaders quickly roll the container onto a FORKLIFT.

INT.  MEMPHIS SUPERHUB - NIGHT

The forklift speeds inside one of the hangers to a LOADING
BELT, where our Box is spilled into a Mississippi River of
packages, HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS of them, all shapes and
sizes, from shoe boxes to engine blocks.  Large mechanical
arms divert the immense flow of Workers at dozens of
stations.  The packages surge and move.

The Workers place the packages label-side-up on new belts,
where they're scanned by laser readers.  Picking up speed our
Box is shunted across the acres of interlocking belts.

The Box ends up in a much larger CONTAINER labeled CDG.

EXT.  MEMPHIS SUPERHUB - NIGHT

A forklift lifts the Container to a door on a giant MD-11.

INT.  GLOBAL OPERATIONS CENTER - NIGHT

A jumbled room jammed with computers and dominated by a HUGE
WALL GRAPHIC that charts hundreds of airplanes.  An Operator
moves a yellow strip labeled Jumbo 12 across the board.

EXT.  CHARLES DE GAULLE AIRPORT - DAY

SERIES OF SHOTS

The giant place touches down in Paris.  The Angel Wing Box
moves quickly on another belt and disappears into another
CONTAINER, which is loaded onto still another AIRPLANE.

EXT.  ST. PETERSBURG AIRPORT, RUSSIA - NIGHT

The plane lands.  The container is unloaded down a belt.  We
see our Angel Box.  Directly in front of it is a DENTED BOX.

INT.  ST. PETERSBURG FEDEX OFFICE, RUSSIA

SERIES OF SHOTS

Night.  The manic activity has come to a dead stop.  Our two
Boxes sit on a table in a corner not far from a small
Christmas tree.

Daylight now.  YURI, a Supervisor, saunters over, picks up
the Angel Box, sees an attractive co-worker, puts it down.

Night again.  A cat walks by the table where our two Boxes
have come to rest.

EXT.  ST. PETERSBURG FEDEX OFFICE - DAY

A FedEx truck pulls out of the warehouse.  The walls of the
warehouse are covered with graffiti.  The streets are slushy,
the buildings blanketed in snow.

EXT.  ST. PETERSBURG - DAY

The Driver sits in the truck drinking tea.  He takes a last
sip, sighs, gets out with the Angel Box.  Walks slowly toward
an APARTMENT HOUSE.

EXT.  ST. PETERSBURG APARTMENT HOUSE - MOMENTS LATER

A beautiful young RUSSIAN WOMAN opens the door.  A young
AMERICAN MAN comes up behind her, signs the form and takes
the Angel Box.  We see Christmas decorations inside.  The
woman puts her arms around him as the door closes.

                     RUSSIAN WOMAN (O.S.)
               (accented English)
          It's pretty.  Who is it from?

                     AMERICAN MAN (O.S.)
          My wife.

We stay with the Driver as he ambles back toward the truck.

EXT.  ST. PETERSBURG OFFICE - MOMENTS LATER

The Driver has just delivered the Dented Box to ALEKSEI,
Russian Businessman, who closes the door of a Czarist-era
building.  Aleksei checks his watch, picks up the phone.

EXT.  FEDEX OFFICES - MANILA - DAY

CHUCK NOLAND, early thirties, walks along a line of brightly
colored jitneys, each bearing the FedEx logo.  With him is a
Filipino FedEx SUPERVISOR wearing a guayabera.  Chuck
glistens with a thin layer of sweat.

                     CHUCK
          My guess is we're talking fuel filters
          here, Fernando.  The gas is dirty, these
          jitneys get in the mountains, their
          engines cut out.

                     FERNANDO
          That could lose us half an hour.

                     CHUCK
          Easy.  Each way.

His beeper goes off.

INT.  FEDEX OFFICES - MANILA - DAY - MOMENTS LATER

Chuck is on the phone.

                     CHUCK
          So it finally turned up...

Chuck hesitates for a moment, then looks at his watch.

                     CHUCK
          I'll catch the sweep tonight.

INT.  FEDEX PLANE - NIGHT

Strapped into the jump seat behind the pilots, Chuck sleeps
with a mask over his eyes.  On his lap are some travel
brochures.  We see sailboats, we see the Florida keys.

EXT.  ST. PETERSBURG FEDEX OFFICES - DAY

Christmas in Russia.  Snow everywhere.  Brightly colored
lights.  Chucks gets out of a Volga with Aleksei.  He has a
bag over his shoulder, the dented package under one arm.

INT.  FEDEX OFFICES - DAY

The staff has assembled near the loading dock.  Yuri the
station manager stands in front, occasionally catching the
eye of the attractive woman.  Chuck displays the FedEx box.

                     CHUCK
          It took this test package thirty-two
          hours to get from Seattle to St.
          Petersburg, a distance of nine thousand
          miles.  And then it took forty-one hours
          to get from our warehouse in St.
          Petersburg to here, a distance of,
          what --

                     ALEKSEI
          Six kilometers.  Four miles.

                     CHUCK
          So how are we going to get this place
          shaped up?

There's a muttered chorus of answers.

                     CHUCK
          There's only one way.  We have to work
          together.  Every one of us depends on
          everyone else.  If one package is late,
          we are all late.  If one truck misses the
          deadline, we all miss the deadline.
          Let's start by taking a look around.

Chuck leads his team through the sorting area.  Yuri squeezes
right next to him, ostentatiously carrying a clipboard.
Chuck stops.

                     CHUCK
          Here, this table is too far from the
          wall.  Packages can slip down...like...
               (pulls out a package from
                behind a table)
          ...this.

He hefts the package, as if trying to guess what's inside.

                     CHUCK
          What could be in here?  Let's say one of
          you sent it.  Could be the closing papers
          on your dacha, could be a toy for your
          grandson's birthday, could be a kidney to
          keep your mother alive.  I don't think
          you want your mother's kidney to end up
          behind a table.

The Sorter shoves the table against the wall.  Yuri says
something to the Translator.

                     TRANSLATOR
          He says they have been very busy.  It is
          hard to get good employees.  He is sure
          you understand.

Wrong answer:  Chuck glances sharply at Yuri.  Aleksei
appears with a cellular phone.

                     ALEKSEI
          Phone call.  Malaysia.

Chuck takes the phone, opening his BAG as he does so.

                     CHUCK
          Kamal?  Right.  I'm getting them.

He pulls out a set of blueprints and tacks them to a bulletin
board as he talks.

                     CHUCK
          I'm looking at the blueprints of K.L.
          right now.  The belts are too small for
          the sorters.  Yeah, sometimes you never
          see what's right in front of your face.
          Look, it's --

Chuck keeps an eye on what is going on in the warehouse.
Then he notices something over by one of the trucks.

                     CHUCK
               (to a loader)
          Hold it!  Hazardous material needs its
          own container!
               (back on the phone)
          -- three in the afternoon there, right?
          That gives you five hours until the sweep
          comes through.  Do the sort by hand
          tonight, then put in a new feeder belt,
          say a twenty-four incher.  Yes, overtime
          is authorized.

He hangs up the phone.  He turns to the crew.

                     CHUCK
          I'm going out on every route, I'm going
          to work every job here, until I know
          enough to help you.  That's it.

The crew disperses back to work.  Chuck and Aleksei walk
toward the office.  They've done this before.  Chuck lets a
corner of his command persona slip.

                     ALEKSEI
          It's bad.

                     CHUCK
          Worse than Warsaw.

                     ALEKSEI
          Nobody remembers that.

                     CHUCK
          The failures they remember.  It's the
          successes they forget.

EXT.  ST. PETERSBURG - DAY - MOMENTS LATER

A FedEx truck pulls out of the FedEx office.  Chuck is
inside.  He notices the graffiti on the walls.

INT.  TRUCK - MOMENTS LATER

Chuck rides next to LEV, the driver, a serious sort.  The
Translator squats on some boxes between them, trying to keep
his balance.

                     CHUCK
          You sorted your packages before you left.
          None of the other drivers did.

The Translator and Lev exchange a few words.

                     TRANSLATOR
          He says he wants to be organized.  Do
          packages in order.

Chuck looks at Lev with respect.  Right answer.

                     CHUCK
          So how come the other drivers haven't
          left yet?

The Translator asks Lev, who looks at him as if he is crazy,
then snorts an answer.  The Translator blushes.

                     TRANSLATOR
          He says -- he is a very rude fellow --

                     CHUCK
          Tell me exactly what he said.

                     TRANSLATOR
          He says why don't his farts smell sweet?

Chuck grins.  Lev shrugs and says something else.

                     TRANSLATOR
          He says that's just the way it is.

                     CHUCK
          Lev -- it's Lev, right?  Listen, this is
          FedEx.  We don't have to accept the way
          it is.

EXT.  HOTEL - ST. PETERSBURG

A weary Chuck enters the hotel.  In the sky above him we see
the Northern Lights.  He doesn't even look up.

INT.  HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT - LATER

Chuck is watching CNN on the television, working his
PowerBook, and holding the phone.

                     CHUCK
          No, keep trying.  A circuit's bound to
          open up.

He hangs up.

                     CHUCK
               (to himself)
          Those damn Northern Lights.

Just then the lights go off.  For a moment everything is
darkness.  Then a small light switches on.  Chuck has a
headlamp on.

He gets up, heads into the bathroom.  We stay in the bedroom.
After only a moment, the light reemerges.  It heads over to
his bag.  We go with it.

Chuck takes out a roll of toilet paper.  The guy is prepared
for anything.  He goes into the bathroom, closes the door.

The lights come back on just as the phone rings.

We hear scuffling sounds on the other side of the door.
Chuck charges out, holding up his pants.

Grabs the phone.

                     CHUCK
          Hello?  Great.  Try it.

He waits.  We hear an ANSWERING MACHINE.

                     KELLY (V.O.)
          This is Kelly, leave me a message and
          I'll call you back soon as I can.

This is not what Chuck wanted to hear.

                     CHUCK
          Kelly, damn, look, this is Chuck.  I'm
          going to be a little late.  Well, more
          than a little.  I had to go to Russia.
          Couldn't be helped.  Could you call and
          cancel the trip?  Look, we'll sail the
          Keys in March.  It's better then anyway.
          I'll be back before Christmas.  I
          promise.  I think.  I mean, I will.  I,
          uh --

He's stumbling over whether to say I love you.

                     CHUCK
          I miss you.

He gently hangs up the phone.

INT.  FEDEX OFFICES - ST. PETERSBURG - SERIES OF SHOTS

A surprised Yuri stands with the attractive assistant as
Chuck takes his clipboard away.

An even more surprised Lev stands by his truck as Chuck hands
the clipboard to him.

Chuck and the loaders clean off the graffiti.

Working alongside the sorters as the packages come in, Chuck
points out how to organize the inflow.

Chuck and Lev go over large maps of St. Petersburg with the
drivers.

INT.  FEDEX WAREHOUSE - ST. PETERSBURG - WEEK LATER

A big semi is being loaded with outgoing packages for the
airport run.  Aleksei, Chuck, Lev and the office executives
watch as containers are rolled on.

                     LEV
          We've never got all the trucks in on
          time.  Never.

Chucks looks at the clock.

                     CHUCK
          Only one still left?

                     LEV
          Route six.

Aleksei points at the big semi.

                     ALEKSEI
          If we don't send it now we may miss the
          connection in Paris.

The pressure in on.  Chuck looks around at his team.

                     CHUCK
               (to Aleksei)
          Give it five minutes.

EXT.  FEDEX OFFICES - ST. PETERSBURG - MINUTES LATER

The last truck rolls in.

INT.  FEDEX OFFICES - ST. PETERSBURG

The last truck enters and loading dock.  A few loaders move
toward it.  The executives all stand and watch.  But not
Chuck.  He's hands on.

                     CHUCK
          Let's go.

He heads toward the truck and begins pulling off packages.
All the other executives follow him.

INT.  FEDEX OFFICES - ST. PETERSBURG - MINUTES LATER

Led by Chuck, who works like a man possessed, they sort the
packages.

                     CHUCK
          That's Bermuda.  Bermuda is in the
          Memphis thru container.  No, Azores is
          Europe.

He gestures at a closed container.

                     CHUCK
          The Paris container.  Africa too.  Japan
          goes to Memphis.

Chuck is everywhere, setting the example.  The whole office
is energized, working together.

INT.  FEDEX OFFICES - ST. PETERSBURG - MINUTES LATER

They load the last container on the waiting truck.  Chuck
pounds the truck on the side.  Go.

The truck roars out of the loading dock.

Everyone takes a breath.  They are happy, proud.

                     LEV
          We did it.  All of them.

                     CHUCK
          Great job, everyone.  Remember, work
          together.  We are like a hand...

They've heard this before.  Lev holds up his hand just before
Chuck does.

                     LEV
          One finger, weak.  All fingers working
          together, strong.

This makes Chuck smile.

                     CHUCK
          You got it.

EXT.  CHARLES DE GAULLE AIRPORT - DAY

A FedEx MD-11 is being loaded with huge containers of
freight.  Chuck goes up the gangway next to the forklifts.

INT.  MD-11 - MOMENTS LATER

The pilots -- JACK and GWEN -- are going down their check
lists.  Chuck sticks his head in the cockpit.

                     CHUCK
          I absolutely, positively, have to get to
          Memphis overnight.

                     JACK
          Can't help you.  Try UPS.

                     CHUCK
          Jack -- gotta be something wrong with our
          physicals, you keep getting certified to
          fly.  Gwen, aren't you worried?

                     GWEN
          Terrified.

                     CHUCK
          We're on time, right?

                     JACK
          On time, Chuck.

Chuck hands Jack and Gwen small packages.

                     CHUCK
          Little present from the emerging
          republics.

Another FedEx Road Warrior named STAN gets on.  He and Chuck
are obviously old hands at this.

                     CHUCK
          What connects the world?  What makes it
          one?
               (they ignore him)
          We do.  FedEx.

                     GWEN
          You are such a lifer.

                     STAN
          What do you expect, from the guy who
          stole a kid's bicycle when his truck
          broke down?

                     CHUCK
          Borrowed.  I borrowed it.

The two of them strap in.

                     STAN
          How'd it go?

                     CHUCK
          Great.  Terrific.  The good guys won one
          for a change.

He's finished a tough job.  He's relaxed and on his way home.
But Stan's his boss, and Stan's got bad news.

                     STAN
          I had to bump your plane last night.

Chuck can't believe it.

                     CHUCK
          You what?

                     STAN
          It was fifteen minutes late.

The plane begins to taxi.

                     CHUCK
          I checked the weather, you had the jet
          stream, you could have made it up.

                     STAN
          But I might not have.

                     CHUCK
          Jesus.  I got it working... You have no
          idea how hard it was... They're finally a
          team...

                     STAN
          I'm touched.

                     CHUCK
          You fucked us over.

                     STAN
          The point of FedEx, as I understand it,
          is to make the damn connection.

                     CHUCK
          I was making a point.

                     STAN
          What?  Let Paris hold its plane?  Let
          Memphis take care of it?  Let somebody
          down the line clean up your mess?

                     CHUCK
          Every person counts, every package
          counts, that's my point.

                     STAN
          You know what your problem is?  You just
          see the packages in front of you.  You
          don't see the big picture.

                     CHUCK
          Baloney.  I do see the damn "big
          picture."

EXT.  CHARLES DE GAULLE AIRPORT - NIGHT

The MD-11 takes off.

INT.  MD-11 - NIGHT

Chuck is focused on his PowerBook with the screen away from
us, Stan is doing tai chi amidst the FedEx containers.  It
feels a little surreal, all those containers surrounding
them.

Stan comes over, looks at the image on the computer.  It's a
sailboat with some technical specifications under it.

                     STAN
          I didn't know we had sailboats.

                     CHUCK
          It's a ketch Kelly and I had chartered.

                     STAN
          For all those vacation days you got
          coming.

Chuck doesn't look up.

                     CHUCK
          And never take.

                     STAN
          Look, I'm sorry about your plane.  But I
          couldn't risk being late into Memphis.

                     CHUCK
          Forget it.

                     STAN
          You know General McLelland, he wouldn't
          attack unless he had everything just
          right.  Finally Abe Lincoln came to him
          and said, General, if you're not going to
          use my army, could I borrow it for a
          while?  So he gave it to Grant and Grant
          just said, let's go.

                     CHUCK
          I'm from Arkansas.  Tell me a story with
          Robert E. Lee in it and maybe I'll pay
          attention.

                     STAN
          We're warriors, not desk jockeys.  We've
          got to be bold.  You always want all your
          ducks lined up.  But nothing's 100
          percent.  It's always 60-40, maybe 51-49.
          Hell, I'd take 40-60.  Then roll the
          dice.

                     CHUCK
          That's why you're a gambling man.

                     STAN
          That's why I'm running foreign and you're
          not.  That's why you're not married and I
          am.

                     CHUCK
          For the third time.

                     STAN
          Take the plunge, admit your mistakes,
          move on to tomorrow.  That's FedEx,
          that's women, that's life.

Stan is so outrageous, Chuck can't help but laugh.

                     CHUCK
          You are one sick fucker.

                     STAN
          I'm trying to help you here.  There's
          Warsaw, there's this --

                     CHUCK
          This was nothing like Warsaw.  I held the
          truck then minutes, it's not that big a
          deal.

But apparently it is.

                     STAN
          Look, that kids' bike, that's a guy
          who'll do what it takes to get there on
          time.  Live up to your legend, that's all
          I'm saying.

Chuck reaches in his pocket, pulls out a bill.

                     CHUCK
          A hundred rubles St. Petersburg hits 95
          percent in a month.

                     STAN
          Ninety five percent?  Just give me the
          money now.

                     CHUCK
          Talk is cheap.  Are we on or not?

                     STAN
          We're on.

Chuck closes the PowerBook.

                     CHUCK
          Let's go off-line.

They both take out their Valium -- the price they pay for
being such road warriors.

                     CHUCK
          Two Valium...

Stan puts on his Walkman.

                     STAN
          And the Stones.  Got to be.

It's their ritual.  Chuck puts headphones from his Walkman
over his ears, puts a mask over his eyes and leans his head
back onto the headrest.  We hear the Rolling Stones.

EXT.  MEMPHIS AIRPORT - NIGHT - WIDE

The MD-11 arrives at its gate.  The cargo doors open.
Forklifts and a gangway roll up to the side.

INT.  MD-11 - NIGHT

Stan stands smiling over Chuck.

                     STAN
          Chuck.  Wake up Chuck.

Chuck pulls off the mask, takes out the earplugs.  He manages
a groggy grin.

                     STAN
          You gotta do your own delivery from here.

INT.  SUPERHUB - NIGHT

Chuck walks through the extraordinary nexus of speeding
packages that intersect in intricate paths above and around
him.  This is the beating center of the FedEx world, the
crossroads, the deep core where everything connects.  In his
still-drugged state it all seems weirdly psychedelic.  A
Christmas tree goes by, then a huge plastic Santa Claus, both
with shipping labels.

EXT.  CHICKASAW GARDENS - MEMPHIS - NIGHT

Chuck's car pulls into the driveway of a small cottage in an
older Memphis neighborhood.  The radio is playing the news.

INT.  CHUCK'S HOUSE - MOMENTS LATER

Chuck drops his briefcase and his bag.  The place is a jumble
of clothes, papers, books, etc.  In the living room is a tank
of tropical fish.  The water looks a little green.  No
bubbles are coming from the filter.

Uh oh.

Chuck walks to the tank.  He tightens a piece of tape that
holds the power cord onto the filter, taps the filter with
his finger, once, twice...the bubbles start again.

                     CHUCK
          Damn thing.

But for a couple of fish floating on top of the tank it's too
late.

Chuck gets out his scoop and slowly skims them off.

                     CHUCK
          Sorry, I'm really sorry.

EXT.  CHUCK'S HOUSE - BACK YARD

Chuck digs a small hole in the back yard with a large kitchen
spoon.

Drops the dead fish in.

Fills the hole.

INT.  CHUCK'S HOUSE - LATER

The CD is playing.  Chuck lies in bed, switches on the TV.
This is no good.  He doesn't care how late it is, he's going
to find Kelly.

EXT.  MEMPHIS - NIGHT - LATER

Chuck drives in his car through the streets of Memphis.

EXT.  UNIVERSITY - NIGHT

Chuck pulls up to a lab building at Memphis State.

INT.  LAB - NIGHT

Two doctoral candidates are playing Doom on their computers
when Chuck walks in.

                     CHUCK
          You seen Kelly Frears?

One of them gestures toward a door.

                     GUY
          Xerox machine.

INT.  HALLWAY - NIGHT

Chuck makes his way in the semi-darkness past rack after rack
of specimens in bottles.

Ahead of him we see the flashing green light of a Xerox
machine.

INT.  XEROX ROOM

The light goes off.  KELLY leans over the machine, bangs on
it.

                     KELLY
          Sonofabitch!

                     CHUCK
          Hey, be nice to it, it'll be nice to you.

Surprised, Kelly turns to greet Chuck.

                     KELLY
          Chuck!  You're back!

She leaps into his arms.

                     KELLY
          Your eyes are puffy.  Did you take Valium
          again?

                     CHUCK
          You smell like formaldehyde.

Kelly looks over at the Xerox.

                     KELLY
          My last chapter's in there, and the damn
          machine's jammed.

                     CHUCK
          Let's take a look.

He lifts up the cover.

                     KELLY
          How was Russia?

                     CHUCK
          Cold.

                     KELLY
          Don't overwhelm me with details, you know
          how I hate that.  Did you get it fixed?

                     CHUCK
          I thought I did.

He pries up one feeder, then another.

                     CHUCK
          Got to follow the paper path here.

                     KELLY
          Chuck, forget the Xerox.  So Russia
          didn't turn out well?

But Chuck doesn't want to talk.  He's focused on the machine.

                     CHUCK
          Used to you could fix these yourself.

She pulls him out of the machine.  He has toner on his
fingers.

                     KELLY
          Chuck.

                     CHUCK
          What do you want me to say?  That I
          thought I'd done a great job but it all
          turned to shit?  That I might as well
          have gone sailing for all the good I did?

                     KELLY
          Yeah, tell me.  Tell me all of it.

He suddenly looks really tired.

                     KELLY
          You don't even know what time it is.
          What day it is.

He turns to the Xerox in frustration.

                     CHUCK
          And I can't fix this damn machine.

She looks at him.

                     KELLY
          Come on.

INT.  KELLY'S OFFICE - MOMENTS LATER

A tiny cubicle with a door.  She closes it, takes some paper
towels out of the desk, wipes his fingers.

                     KELLY
          We're on the deck of the ketch, the air's
          soft, the water's clear as crystal...

She licks the last bit of toner off his fingers.

                     CHUCK
          That's carcinogenic.

She ignores that, stays with the fantasy.

                     KELLY
          We're covered with suntan lotion and
          sweat.  Our skin is so hot, it's
          glowing...

And she comes closer to him.

                     KELLY
          We could take a swim.

She's really close now.

                     CHUCK
          On the other hand we could not take a
          swim...

They squiggle themselves onto the desk.

INT.  LAB - NIGHT

Someone kicks the door shut.  Now the figures are in
silhouette, lit by the light in the office.

And then the light goes out.

EXT.  FEDEX OFFICES - NEXT MORNING

A nondescript office park near the airport.  No sign.
Chuck's car screeches into the parking lot.  He jumps out,
glances at this watch, and heads for the building at a run.

INT.  EXECUTIVE CONFERENCE ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

A large room dominated by an animated MAP OF THE WORLD.
Lights at various locations blink and flash.  Above the map
are a large Sign saying "Here Today, Gone Tomorrow" and two
huge digital Clocks -- one keeping time, the other a
countdown clock for that day's package sort at the SuperHub.

The operations team of FedEx sits around a large table.  Each
has on a headset.  BECCA TWIGG, the business-like senior vice
president of Operations, addresses questions to a man --
COLIN PARKER-BOWLES, the European operations manager -- on a
LARGE TV SCREEN in front of her.  "London" is superimposed on
the screen.

                     BECCA
          So why was Milan late, Colin?

                     COLIN
          One of the race horses coming from
          Ireland got colic and had to be off-
          loaded in Brussels.  That put the Jumbo
          15, six hours late into Charles De
          Gaulle.  Customs had difficulty locating
          the dutiable items...

Colin continues as Chuck, out of breath, slips under the
screen and heads for the one remaining vacant seat -- across
from Stan.  Next to Stan is MAYNARD GRAHAM, an MBA systems
man.  Becca addresses a question over to Stan.

                     BECCA
          Stan, can we get P&A down to work with
          Milan customs?

                     STAN
          We're already on it.

                     BECCA
          Good.  And let's look at our live animal
          policy.  I don't think the income stream
          justifies delaying IP product, especially
          at Christmas.

Colin disappears.  A red light goes on.  Becca pushes a
button.  Another face comes on the screen.  "Oakland" appears
under the face.

                     BECCA
          Stand by, Benson, we're still wrapping up
          foreign.

She turns pointedly to Chuck.

                     BECCA
          Chuck, thanks for joining us.  Status?

Chuck swallows nervously, tries to talk matter-of-factly.

                     CHUCK
          Becca, as you know St. Petersburg was
          consistently running late by six to ten
          hours -- sometimes a full day or more.  I
          replaced the station manager.  We
          identified inefficiencies and worked out
          a quality improvement plan I believe can
          be met.

                     MAYNARD
          You replaced the station manager with a
          driver.  A local with no knowledge of our
          systems.

                     BECCA
          Shouldn't you have brought in someone
          from Memphis?  Russia is priority one.

                     MAYNARD
          James Pottinger is available.

The process is being ripped out of Chuck's hands.  He
struggles to get an answer.

                     STAN
          He's a numbers cruncher.  Chuck's done
          all the right things here...

Stan is doing his best to back up Chuck.

                     CHUCK
          Jim's a terrific financial man, no
          question.  But we can't always parachute
          in from Memphis.  We've got to build up
          our local staff.

                     MAYNARD
          We've got to improve foreign on-time,
          that's what we've got to do.  If this new
          guy's so good, how come the very first
          plane he sent missed the connection in
          Paris?

Maynard knows how to go for the jugular.  Everyone looks at
Chuck.

                     CHUCK
          We're building a new team here.  We got
          every package on the truck for the first
          time ever.  Success is the best teacher.

                     MAYNARD
          I don't call missing the plane a success.

Everyone looks at Chuck.

EXT.  KELLY'S HOUSE - DAY - LATE THAT AFTERNOON

Chuck lugs a big package up to the door, knocks on it.  Kelly
opens the door.

                     KELLY
          Merry Christmas eve.

                     CHUCK
          Not if you work for FedEx.

INT.  KELLY'S HOUSE - DAY

Chuck enters as they keep talking.  Her house is cozy but
also where she works.  There's a computer, specimen jars, and
some terrariums with frogs inside.  A Christmas tree with
packages under it.

                     KELLY
          You break four million packages last
          night?

In the b.g. one of the packages by the Christmas tree is
starting to shake on its own.

                     CHUCK
          Four four.  A record.

                     KELLY
          You don't seem too happy about it.

                     CHUCK
          Ah, the staff meeting could have gone
          better.

                     KELLY
          Let me guess, Russia came up?

Chuck's attention goes to the tree.

                     CHUCK
          One of those packages just moved.

The package turns over, something darts out.  It's a puppy,
with a bow around its neck.

                     KELLY
          Merry Christmas.

Chuck bends down to see the puppy.

                     CHUCK
          Hey, look at you.

                     KELLY
          I figure, if we could take care of a
          puppy, we could, you know, take care
          of --

A baby, she wants to say, but that's going a little fast so
she catches herself.  Chuck picks the puppy up.

                     CHUCK
          He is a cute thing.

                     KELLY
          He's your cute thing.

                     CHUCK
          I can't even keep fish alive.

                     KELLY
          A puppy's got a little more personality
          than a fish.

                     CHUCK
          And for you --

Chuck hands over his present.

                     KELLY
          So do good things come in large packages?

Kelly opens Chuck's present -- a very large box.

It's a piece of luggage.

                     CHUCK
          You know, for when you travel.

                     KELLY
          For when I travel?

She can't believe it.  It's the exact opposite of what she
wanted.

                     KELLY
          You should have got me something that
          shows you want us to be together, not
          apart.

Chuck is flummoxed.  Women read so much into things.

                     CHUCK
          I wasn't sending a message.  I though
          you'd like it.

Chuck's beeper goes off.

                     KELLY
          You should have got me a ring.

He checks the number.

                     CHUCK
          I have to go.  I'm on call for overflow
          down at the Hub.

                     KELLY
          A ring.  I wanted a ring.

                     CHUCK
          You did?

She nods.  What to do?

                     CHUCK
          Look, I love the puppy.  I love you.  But
          I have to go.

                     KELLY
          You can't go now.

                     CHUCK
          I have to.

                     KELLY
          You want to.

Chuck picks up the puppy.

                     CHUCK
          What should we call him?  Or is it her?
          How about Jango?

Kelly is having one of those moments when everything comes
clear.

                     KELLY
          This isn't working out.

                     CHUCK
          We're a little emotional here.  It's
          Christmas, maybe we're over-reacting.

                     KELLY
          "We're" not over-reacting.

                     CHUCK
          Could you watch Jango?

                     KELLY
          No.

                     CHUCK
          I can't take him to work.

He hands her the puppy.

                     CHUCK
          We'll talk about it when I come back.
          It'll all be fine.  Really.

This is not a happy woman he is leaving behind.

EXT.  KELLY'S HOUSE - HOUSE LATER

It's dark now.  Chuck returns.  The stars are putting on an
amazing show, but he doesn't notice as he heads for the door.

INT.  KELLY'S HOUSE - MINUTES LATER

Chuck enters.  The tree and the presents under it are gone.

                     CHUCK
          Kelly?  Kelly?

No answer, nothing but the sound of Jango, who begins yelping
in the kitchen.

INT.  KELLY'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - MOMENTS LATER

Chuck picks up Jango, who is barricaded in the kitchen with
some food, some water, and some wet newspapers.

                     CHUCK
          There.  There.  Easy now.

EXT.  KELLY'S HOUSE - BACK YARD - NIGHT - MINUTES LATER

Holding Jango, Chuck walks out into the back yard.

                     CHUCK
          Kelly?

A fire still smolders.  The packages have burned.  The tree
is a blackened mess.

Chuck stares at it.

EXT.  CHUCK'S HOUSE - NEXT MORNING

Chuck gets into his car, puts Jango on the front seat next to
him.  Pulls out of the driveway.

EXT.  ARKANSAS HIGHWAY - DAY

Chuck is in his car, with the dog on his lap.

EXT.  FARM HOUSE - DAY

Chuck's car drives up to a typical Arkansas farm house.  His
MOM is setting some Christmas tree lights around the door.
Chuck gets out of the car.  There's a large wet spot on the
front of his pants.

                     MOM
          What happened to your pants?

                     CHUCK
          Mom, meet Jango.

Chuck displays the puppy.

EXT.  FARM HOUSE - SHED - DAY

Chuck works on an old tractor in the shed.  Some small legs
appear in his vision, then a small face.  This is AMANDA, his
niece.

                     AMANDA
          Dinner's ready.

INT.  FARM HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY

Around the table are Chuck's brother ROGER, his wife MARY,
Amanda, and her TWO BROTHERS.  Mom brings in the turkey,
places it on the table, sits down.  They all hold hands and
bow their heads.

                     MOM
          Chuck?

Chuck hesitates just a moment.

                     CHUCK
          Bless us O Lord, and these thy gifts,
          which we are about to receive, from thou
          bounty, through Christ the Lord.  Amen.

                     ROGER
          Let's eat.

EXT.  FARM HOUSE - LATER THAT DAY

The children burst out the door, shrieking, chased by Jango.

INT.  FARM HOUSE - DAY

The grown-ups are cleaning up after Christmas dinner.  The
scene moves between the table, the kitchen counter, and the
refrigerator.  It's an old-fashioned kitchen, simply
furnished.

                     MARY
          How's Kelly?

                     CHUCK
          Great.

                     ROGER
          Thought you were going to bring her.

                     CHUCK
          So did I.

                     MOM
          It seemed like she had such a good time
          last time.

                     CHUCK
          It's nothing you did, Mom, believe me.

                     MARY
          Jennifer's still down at the post office.
          And she's still got that crush on you.

                     ROGER
          And she's still got those --

                     MARY
          Roger.

                     ROGER
          You should have stuck around.

This is an old, sore subject.

                     CHUCK
          Look, I help take care of the place.  You
          got my check, didn't you Mom?

                     MOM
          That new roof, that's your doing.

                     ROGER
          You're just allergic to farming, that's
          what dad said.  Can't stand to be alone.
          Can't stand to be in one place.  Can't
          stand the sight of...blood.

He drops the turkey giblets into the trash.

                     MARY
          Roger's going to put chickens in here.

Chuck can't believe this.

                     CHUCK
          Come on Roger, this is dad all over
          again.  You already did beefalo,
          chinchillas, and what was that, ostrich?
          They chased Mom around the yard, sprained
          her hip.

Mom goes to the freezer and takes out some frozen
strawberries.

                     MOM
          It wasn't that bad, dear.

                     MARY
          You can't make a living out of this
          place.  We tried.

                     CHUCK
          But chickens?

                     ROGER
          Sixty three pounds consumed per capita,
          up from twenty seven in 1960.  Going to
          pass beef.  Chicken's global.  No
          religious taboos.  You don't see your
          Hindus and your Muslims boycotting
          poultry.

                     CHUCK
          True enough.  No sacred chickens nowhere,
          so far as I know.

                     MOM
          Roger's working at Tyson's now.

Mom mashes the block of frozen strawberries with a fork to
separate the strawberries from the ice.

                     CHUCK
          Really?

                     ROGER
          Come on down to the plant.  It's state of
          the art.  We're doing for chickens what
          FedEx did for the delivery business.

                     CHUCK
          Just don't count 'em before they hatch.

Roger grins at him.  This is just how they are.

                     ROGER
          I'll try to remember that.

                     MOM
          Dessert.

They all sit down.  Mom brings the slushy frozen strawberries
to the table, squirts on some Reddi-whip.  Looks pointedly at
Chuck.

                     MOM
          Speaking of hatching, I could sure use
          some more grandchildren.

Not a timely topic with Chuck.

                     CHUCK
          Mom, this is a farm.  We've got real
          strawberries growing outside, we've got
          real cream.

                     MOM
          Oh no, the prodigal son's home.  We bring
          out the store bought.

Chuck takes a bite, winces a little as the cold strawberries
hit his teeth.

EXT.  MOM'S HOUSE - LATER THAT DAY

Chuck fixes the drain pipe while Mom prunes the rose bushes
around the porch.

                     CHUCK
          Maybe I should take a few days off.
          Roger's working now, you could use some
          help around here...

                     MOM
          Don't you even think about it.

                     CHUCK
          The place is falling apart.

                     MOM
          I'm doing fine.

She looks pointedly at Chuck.

                     CHUCK
          Doing great, Mom, don't worry about me.

                     MOM
          There's settled folks, and there's
          nomads.  You're just not a settled folk.
          You never belonged here.

Chuck finishes the drain pipe.  Gives it a thunk with his
finger.

                     CHUCK
          Come on inside, Mom.  You've had a long
          day.

INT.  FARM HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

In his boyhood room, we see Chuck's laptop, which is hooked
up to the internet FedEx homepage.  All around him are models
of boats and planes, maps, pictures of far-off places.  The
room of a boy who always fantasized about getting away.

Chuck is beside it, slumped down on the desk.  Asleep.

EXT.  FARM HOUSE - DAY

His mom waves to him as Chuck drives away.

INT.  FEDEX OFFICE - LATER THAT DAY

Chuck enters his office, on the go.  His assistant LESLIE is
waiting for him.

                     CHUCK
          I need the latest PDRs on St. Petersburg.

                     LESLIE
          And how was your Christmas?

                     CHUCK
          Terrific.  Yours?

She nods, used to this.

                     CHUCK
          And get me in to the dentist.  My tooth's
          acting up.

Stan enters.

                     STAN
          Malaysia's tanking.  We're meeting in ten
          in operations.

                     CHUCK
          Right.
               (to Leslie)
          Get me everything on Indonesia, New
          Guinea, all the way to Australia.

INT.  OPERATIONS ROOM - MINUTES LATER

Chuck, Leslie, Stan and another executive from the meeting
named DICK are gathered around the TV screen.  A squawk box
is on the table.

                     CHUCK
          Kamal?  Kamal?  Can you hear us?

The box squawks.  The TV screen rolls an imperfect image.

                     DICK
          Can't we get this working?

A Technician is fiddling with the TV set.

                     TECHNICIAN
          Trying.

                     CHUCK
          Kamal, you're breaking up.  Can you hear
          us?

                     VOICE (SQUAWK BOX)
          Kamal is not here.

                     CHUCK
          Who is this?  Where is Kamal?

                     VOICE (SQUAWK BOX)
          It is Ibrim, I, I am a sorter.

                     CHUCK
          What's going on down there?

                     VOICE (SQUAWK BOX)
          Kamal is not here.  We are very defused.

                     CHUCK
          Who's in charge then, where is Chinn?

The squawk box hums and crackles.  Nothing.  Chuck turns to
the Technician.

                     STAN
          We got Telex, e-mail?

                     TECHNICIAN
          Sure.  Just not getting any answers.

Chuck turns to Leslie.

                     CHUCK
          When's the next Jumbo?

                     LESLIE
          The regular flight is scheduled for oh
          three hundred tomorrow.

                     CHUCK
          Anything else?

                     LESLIE
          There's a sweep leaving Memphis in an
          hour, goes through Sydney.

                     STAN
          Maybe you should get your ducks lined up
          first.

Chuck looks over at Stan.

                     CHUCK
          Call Operations.  Get me on it.

And Stan is impressed.

EXT.  CHUCK'S HOUSE - DAY

Chuck leaves with his bag over his shoulder and the puppy
under his arm.

EXT.  KELLY'S HOUSE - DAY - MINUTES LATER

Kelly opens the door.  Chuck is there with the puppy.

                     KELLY
          That's your dog.

                     CHUCK
          It's our dog.  It belongs to us.

                     KELLY
          There isn't any us.

                     CHUCK
          Yes there is.

Kelly can't stay mad.

                     KELLY
          I'm sorry about the presents.  I got a
          little carried away.

                     CHUCK
          No, it was great.  Maybe a little
          overkill --

                     KELLY
          I burned the Christmas tree.

She's half-laughing, half-wanting-to-cry.

                     KELLY
          Why didn't you come over, get mad at me,
          tell me what a stupid bitch I was.

                     CHUCK
          I guess I hadn't thought through how I
          felt.

                     KELLY
          What, you were going to come over the
          next day all calm and say, Kelly that
          really made me mad?  Don't tell me you're
          mad.  Be mad.  Be who you are right now.

                     CHUCK
          Look, we'll do our trip as soon as I get
          back.

                     KELLY
          Don't even start.

And then it hits her.

                     KELLY
          Get back?  From where?

                     CHUCK
          Malaysia.  They're holding the sweep.

She stares at him for a long moment, then at the puppy.

                     KELLY
          Give him to me.

He hands her the dog.

                     KELLY
          Chuck, you're breaking my heart.

                     CHUCK
          A week, max.  Okay?  Okay?

                     KELLY
          Go on.  We'll be fine.  I'll feed Jango
          to the frogs.

She kisses the puppy.

INT.  FEDEX PLANE - NIGHT

Chuck enters the cockpit, where two different pilots are
going through their checklists.  Chuck repeats his familiar
patter.

                     CHUCK
          Al -- gotta be something wrong with our
          physicals, you keep getting certified to
          fly.  John, aren't you worried?

                     JOHN
          I disconnected his controls.  He only
          thinks he's flying.

Chuck settles into his seat.

                     CHUCK
          You're on your way home, Al?

Al has an Australian accent.

                     AL
          Right.  Down home, down under.

                     CHUCK
          We're on time, right?

                     AL
          On time, Chuck.

INT.  FEDEX PLANE - NIGHT - HOURS LATER

Settled into the jump seat, Chuck finishes up his notes on
his PowerBook and begins his flight ritual.

He puts in his ear plugs and takes out his Valium.  He
swallows one, then thinks, and swallows two more.  Then he
turns on his Walkman to the Rolling Stones, puts the mask
over his eyes, and, as usual, goes to sleep.

                                                 DISSOLVE TO:

INT.  FEDEX PLANE - NIGHT

The plane is SHAKING badly.  HEAR frantic, garbled radio
talk.  Chuck stirs, struggles to his feet, drowsy and
drugged.

INT.  FEDEX PLANE - CHUCK'S POV

Everything is hazy, out of focus, as it was in his earlier
drugged condition.  But this is real haze.  SMOKE.  And the
cabin also TWISTS and TILTS.

Chuck tries to steady himself against the wall.  This is
nightmarish.  Is this really happening?

INT.  FEDEX PLANE - CHUCK'S POV - COCKPIT

The pilots wrestle with the controls.  They have their life
jackets on.  John glances back at Chuck, his face floating in
a cloud of fear.

INT.  FEDEX PLANE - MOMENTS LATER

Chuck struggles to put on his life jacket.  The plane is
VIBRATING VIOLENTLY.  He can't get the straps straight.  He
is KNOCKED against one wall, then another, then to the floor.

Chuck tries to blow on the mouth tubes for his life jacket.
Can't do it!  Puff.  Puff.  Shit!  John motions frantically
for Chuck to pull on the automatic inflators on his jacket.
Chuck fumbles for them.

Huge palettes shift and groan, one BREAKS FREE, banging
violently against the side of the plane, spilling out its
boxes.  Then it swings and KNOCKS Chuck on the head!  He goes
down!

INT.  GLOBAL OPERATIONS CENTER - MOMENTS LATER

A CONTROLLER mans the global operations desk.  His SUPERVISOR
stands behind him, sipping some coffee.  The mood is eerily
calm.  An assistant moves Plane Locator Cards on a giant
board.

                     CONTROLLER
          Jumbo 14 is overdue in Sector K.

                     SUPERVISOR
          Where are they?

Another CONTROLLER tracks a giant computer screen.

                     CONTROLLER 2
          Somewhere east of Port Moresby.  Guam is
          getting a signal but no location.  Maybe
          the GPS is out.

The signal flashes, but is strangely still compared to the
others, which are moving.

EXT.  FEDEX PLANE - NIGHT

The giant plane PLUMMETS down from the sky.

INT.  FEDEX PLANE - NIGHT

Chuck is semi-conscious and bleeding from the head.  John
pulls the inflators on Chuck's life jacket, which fills with
a WHOOSH!, sending Chuck's arms out to the sides.  Al
struggles with the LIFE RAFT.  It's all blurred, frantic,
terrifying.

EXT.  PACIFIC - NIGHT - MOMENTS LATER

The plane hits the ocean with a CRASH and a WAVE of water.

INT.  GLOBAL OPERATIONS CENTER - MOMENTS LATER

The Controller is speaking mechanically into the microphone.

                     CONTROLLER
          Guam, I need a fix on Jumbo 14.

EXT.  PACIFIC - NIGHT

Shrouded with fog and surrounded by debris, the tail of the
big plane slowly SINKS beneath the angry, storm-driven waves.

EXT.  PACIFIC - DAY

A life raft is tossed on dark, storm-driven seas.  Inside it,
semi-conscious, Chuck hangs on.

EXT.  PACIFIC - NIGHT

We catch glimpses of the yellow lift raft in the dark as the
storm continues.

EXT.  BEACH - EARLY MORNING

The storm has ended.  Waves lap gently on a beach cut like a
scallop out of a rocky shore.  On the beach we see scattered
FEDEX BOXES.  And we see, face-down, half-buried in sand, a
MAN IN A SUIT and a life jacket.

Chuck.

The tide gently rocks him, laps at his face.  He chokes.
Slowly he gets to his knees.  Vomits seawater, big heaves.
He rolls over, sits down.  Dazed.  Still confused.  Where am
I?  What happened?

Chuck's first instinct is to check the time.  He looks at his
watch, taps it in frustration.

Then he looks around, and we look with him.

CHUCK'S POV - BEACH

The fog has thinned.  We can see palm groves and mangrove
thickets leading back into a thickly wooded valley climbing
up a steep, rocky hillside.  The rocks on the opposite point
end in a barren ridge.  Clouds hide the top of the hill.

ON CHUCK

as he takes in his surroundings.  He licks his lips.  He's
thirsty.  But something he sees is even more important.  We
stay with him as he WALKS.  He comes to a FEDEX PACKAGE in
the sand, picks it up, brushes off the sand, walks farther.
He picks up another package.

EXT.  BEACH - WIDE

Chuck walks down the beach, picking up FedEx packages,
leaving a trail of footprints in the sand.  Ahead of him we
notice a package decorated with ANGEL WINGS.

EXT.  BEACH - LATER THAT MORNING

Chuck has made a neat stack of FedEx boxes under some palm
trees at the rim of the beach.  He examines the Angel Wing
drawing with passing curiosity, then puts it on the stack.

Chuck takes off his life jacket, sits down in the shade,
makes himself comfortable, and waits.

EXT.  BEACH - SUNSET

Chuck is still waiting.  He's a systems man, and the system
isn't working.

                     CHUCK
          All right, guys.  I'm here.  Check the
          GPS, get moving.

EXT.  BEACH - NIGHT

The full moon shines a ghostly light on the beach.  Trees
cast moon-shadows on the sand.  Chuck seems very, very alone.

We HEAR from the dark thickets a STRANGE NOISE.  Rustling in
the leaves.  Something crashing in the trees, or is it a
wave?  A jolt of adrenaline courses through Chuck's body.  He
lurches to his feet.

We HEAR the noises again.  Chuck edges toward the rocks at
the barb of the hook.  Keeping his eye on the thicket, he
bends down and picks up a stone.  His first weapon.

In the rocks he finds a piece of driftwood.  He picks it up
in his other hand.  He backs between two rocks and stands
facing the thicket, every sense alert.  A cloud passes over
the moon.  The shadow streaks across Chuck's anxious face.

EXT.  BEACH - MORNING

The morning TIDE is coming in.  We follow the tide as it laps
amidst the rocks and finds Chuck, staring out to sea.  The
empty sea.

                     CHUCK
          Where the fuck are you?

But now he is really thirsty.  We WALK with Chuck up the
beach.

Beneath the palms he sees a couple of coconuts.  He picks one
of them up and studies it.  It's heavy, almost the size of a
volleyball.  How to get in it?

He throws it down on a rock.  The coconut just bounces off.
He wedges the coconut between two rocks, then throws a rock
down on it.  It bounces off.  He throws down a bigger rock.
It smashes on the rocks and chips.  Chuck picks up the rock.
OW!  Where the rock had chipped the edge is sharp.  It cuts
him.

                     CHUCK
          Sonofabitch.

The blood stains the rock a bright red.  Chuck sucks on his
finger, then he gets an idea -- the same idea primitive man
first got when he discovered stone tools.

He picks up the rock, test the edge.  Sharp -- really sharp.
He throws another rock down, but it doesn't break.  He picks
up another rock and strikes the first one.  Then again,
harder.  And again.  A large flake shoots off.  This edge is
even sharper.

He has a knife.

OPENING THE COCONUT - SERIES OF SHOTS

Chuck uses the stone knife to saw at the coconut.  No luck.

Chuck clumsily sharpens a stick with the sharp rock.

Chuck brings the sharpened stick down hard on the coconut,
but the stick slides off, sending the coconut rolling away.

Chuck positions the stick, pointed end up, in a hole, then
SLAMS the coconut down hard on it.  Success!  The green nut
of the coconut splits.  The brown inner nut is free!  He
smashes the nut with a rock, but -- OW!  -- he hits his hand!
Chuck licks his fingers, but he is so thirsty there's no more
saliva.  He smashes again.  The shell breaks to smithereens.
Coconut milk splashes everywhere.

                     CHUCK
          That was smart, really smart.

Rotating a nut along its axis and carefully moving his
fingers out of the way, he SMASHES the nut again.  The shell
splits!  The precious liquid splashes out.  Left inside is a
swallow or two, which Chuck laps up eagerly.  The milky white
liquid dribbles down his face.

                     CHUCK
          Ahhh.

EXT.  BEACH - SUNRISE

Chuck squints at the ocean.  His sunburn is bad -- his lips
are cracked.  A stack of broken coconut shells is beside him.
No one's there -- again.

                     CHUCK
          Maybe the GPS malfunctioned.  That Korean
          airliner did.

Clouds scud in front of the sun.  Beyond the reef the waves
are high and churning.  Chuck can see them pound onto the
reef.

                     CHUCK
          Okay, do the math.  Maybe they know where
          you are within, say 500 miles.  That's a
          circle with an area of, uh, pi r squared.
          So, uh, 250,000 times three point one
          four, that's about 800,000 square miles.
          Three times the size of Texas.

This sinks in.  Then Chuck gets an idea.

                     CHUCK
          They could use a satellite.

But even that doesn't give him much hope.

                     CHUCK
          Say each satellite photo is 30 feet
          square, that's uh...fuck it...billions
          and billions of photos.

That sinks in.

                     CHUCK
          Aw, someone will come.

EXT.  BEACH - NIGHT

Chuck sleeps by the coconuts.  The tide is coming in.  Chuck
stirs, gets up, staggers over to a palm tree to relieve
himself.

He stares idly out at the moonlight on the waves.  Then not
so idly.  Something's out there, something floating on the
tide.

                     CHUCK
          What the hell?

EXT.  BEACH - MOMENTS LATER

Chuck splashes into the gentle surf, reaches the dark object.

It's a body.  Chuck turns it over.  It's Al, one of the
pilots, his face gray and waterlogged and very dead.

                     CHUCK
          Oh Jesus.

EXT.  BEACH - MOMENTS LATER

Chuck drags the body up on the beach and then collapses,
exhausted.  He sits by it, staring at it.

                     CHUCK
          I'm so sorry, Al.  So sorry.

EXT.  BEACH - MORNING   

Chuck has almost finished a grave in the sand back of the
palm trees.  He's been digging with a piece of driftwood
sharpened with his stone knife.

He drags the body into the pit.  Stares down at it.  That
could be me.

                     CHUCK
          Got to cover Al up.

He wants to say more, can't.  He scoops some sand over the
body.

                     CHUCK
          Got to cover Al up.

He scoops in some more sand.  It's eerily like burying the
tropical fish in his back yard.

EXT.  BEACH - LATER

With a rock Chuck hammers a crude driftwood marker into the
sand.

EXT.  BEACH - LATER THAT DAY

As Chuck sits on the beach, he half-sings, half-talks "Yellow
Submarine" very quietly to himself.

                     CHUCK
          We all live in a yellow submarine, yellow
          submarine...

He looks over at the deep woods and down to the rocky point.
Comes to a decision.  He takes a drink of coconut, picks up
his club and a coconut, sticks the stone knife in his pants.
He's ready to go.

EXT.  BEACH - DAY - MOMENTS LATER

Chuck climbs over the rocks and disappears out of sight.
He's still half-singing to himself.

                     CHUCK
          Yellow submarine.  We all live in a
          yellow submarine...

EXT.  ISLAND - DAY - MOMENTS LATER

Chuck's way is blocked by rocks and jungle.  He hesitates.
He picks up a rock and THROWS IT to scare away all those bad
things.  It crashes into the ferns and palm trees.  He takes
a step into the jungle.

EXT.  JUNGLE - MINUTES LATER

Chuck struggles through a dense thicket beneath a jungle
canopy.  Vines and creepers reach out toward him.  There is
no path, nothing to show him where to go.

EXT.  JUNGLE - HALF HOUR LATER

Chuck climbs through a tangle of vines and ferns.  He takes a
drink from the coconut he is carrying.  The last drink.

                     CHUCK
          Bad idea.  Should have saved some.

He throws away the husk.  He looks up, but the only sunlight
reaching him is dappled from the canopy above him.

EXT.  ISLAND - MOMENTS LATER

Chuck emerges onto a ridge that leads to a summit.  He climbs
across a rocky lava field covered with scrub lichen and low
ferns, soil dark as coffee beans, his way crossed by steep
gullies that cut like dark fingers into the lava.

The lava field narrows, forcing Chuck closer to the sea.  He
passes a series of CAVES, their mouths dark and mysterious
and scary.  He gives them a wide berth.

EXT.  ISLAND - CLIFF - MOMENTS LATER

The land narrows to a ledge that stretches across a high
cliff perched over the ocean.  Beyond this rock bridge the
path smoothes out to a summit.

Chuck stares at the narrow bridge, then down at the waves
breaking on the rocks far below.  To get any view, he will
have to cross the bridge.  He's thirsty.  The late afternoon
sun is hot.

                     CHUCK
          Other than that, Mrs. Lincoln, how did
          you enjoy the play?

Hugging the wall of the cliff, taking each step with great
caution, he sets out across the bridge.

EXT.  ISLAND - CLIFF

Step by step, Chuck negotiates the narrow bridge.  He reaches
a flume of polished basalt which cuts across the ledge like a
slide in a water park -- except this flume ends high above
the waves.  Chuck tries to step across it, can't quite, tries
one foot first, then the other.

                     CHUCK
          Shit!

He looks back, but that seems even scarier.

                     CHUCK
          Got to get there.  Got to see.  C'mon...
          c'mon.  Don't be such a wuss.  Be bold.

He looks down at the ocean beneath him, closes his eyes, and
jumps.  It's only a few feet, but he's breathing hard when he
lands on the other side.  He hugs the rocks, getting his
breath.

EXT.  ISLAND SUMMIT - SUNSET - MOMENTS LATER

Chuck looks to each point on the compass.  He is on an
ISLAND, small, inhospitable, without sign of habitation or
anything human.  On three sides the waves break against
steep, hostile cliffs.  A reef encloses the cove where he
came from.

                     CHUCK
          No way on.  No way off.

Chuck stares out to sea in every direction.  Nothing.

                     CHUCK
          This is bad.  Really, really bad.

The last rays of sun hit his face.  The ocean turns a deep
reddish gold.

EXT.  CLIFF - MOMENTS LATER

Going down is even scarier.  It's dusk and the light is flat
and gray.  Chuck stares at the ledge.

                     CHUCK
          Come on.  Crawl if you have to.

Chuck crawls on his hands and knees across the rock bridge.

EXT.  ROCKY SLOPE - MOMENTS LATER

Chuck stumbles over the rocks.  The caves look ominous and
primal.

EXT.  EDGE OF JUNGLE - NIGHT

It's getting dark now.  The jungle seems impenetrable, the
dark wood of fable.  Chuck hesitates, then plunges into it.

EXT.  JUNGLE - NIGHT MINUTES LATER

The moon has just begun to rise, casting eerie light into the
jungle.  The shadows reach out to grab Chuck, then real
branches and vines tug at him.  He heads into thick
blackness.

EXT.  BEACH - NIGHT - LATER

Chuck emerges around the rocks.  He reaches the stack of
familiar FedEx boxes -- Ahh, home!  He's breathing hard, from
both fear and exertion.

                     CHUCK
          Got to drink.  Got to drink something.

With his last strength he opens a coconut on the stick.  He
bangs hard on the shell and gulps down the milk.  He stares
at the stack of FedEx boxes.  What could be inside?  He
reaches out and touches one.

                     CHUCK
          They don't belong to you.

Responsibility gets the better of necessity, and he takes his
hand away.

EXT.  BEACH - MORNING

Face red from the sun, Chuck hacks at a palm frond with his
stone knife.  He saws the palm frond off near the base,
leaving it about a foot long.

                     CHUCK
          Got to have shade.  Got to have a hat.

He ties the loose fibers into a sort of circle, then sets it
upon his head.  It looks amazingly like some sort of
primitive cap.

He grabs a couple of FedEx boxes and heads for the beach.

EXT.  BEACH - LATER

Chuck finishes the P on H E L P, which he has spelled out
with the FedEx boxes on the beach.

EXT.  JUNGLE - DAY - LATER

Chuck scrambles down a ravine.  He kneels down and feels the
ground.  It is dry, completely dry.

EXT.  LAVA SLOPE - DAY

Chuck traverses the slope, determined to find water.

A FLAT ROCK - LATER

With a puddle of dirty water trapped in a tiny hollow.
Suddenly Chuck flops down into frame.  He tries to scoop up
some water in his hands, but he just splashes it around.  He
licks his fingers.  Then he gets down on his stomach and laps
up the water with his tongue.  Like an animal.

In the bottom of the small depression is some fine mud.  He
rubs it on his reddened face and across his burned lips.

                     CHUCK
          Oh, God.  Thank you.

EXT.  BEACH - NIGHT

Chuck lies in darkness, his eyes reflecting the moon.

EXT.  JUNGLE - DAY

Chuck is drenched in sweat.  He is at the bottom of a hole
six feet deep.  He takes one last dig with the flat stick,
then licks the moist clay that sticks to it.

EXT.  BEACH - DAY

Chuck breaks open another coconut and gulps down the milky
liquid.  With a stone knife he digs in the shell for some of
the meat, but it's dry and chewy and fibrous.  He spits it
out, then lies back on the sand and stares at the first
stars.  Half sings to himself.

                     CHUCK
          You deserve a break today...

He is desperately thirsty.  Hunger gnaws at him.

EXT.  BEACH - DAY - LATER

Holding a sharpened stick, Chuck wades in the shallows at low
tide, looking for fish.  It's difficult to keep his balance.
Suddenly a shadow flashes by, glinting in the morning
sunlight.  Chuck hurls the spear, which ricochets off the
water and floats away.

Chuck plunges into the water after the fish with his bare
hands.  The fish reverses direction.  Chuck leaps after it
and goes under.  He comes up spluttering, on his hands and
knees in the shallows.

Suddenly a whole school of fish swims by him, moving in
unison, like one creature, splitting around Chuck like
mercury.  He grabs at them desperately.  Nothing.

                     CHUCK
          Damn fish!

On some rocks he sees clusters of limpets.  He takes a rock
and tries to dislodge one, but it smashes into a soggy mess.

EXT.  BEACH - DAY

Discouraged, he sits down on the beach and gets his breath.

Idly, Chuck takes out his wallet.  The money is soaked.  He
lays it out to dry.  He finds a PHOTOGRAPH OF KELLY, soaked
and mushy.

He tries to smooth it out.  For a moment he is overcome.  His
face tightens, his eyes get moist.  He stares out to sea.

                     CHUCK
          Wait a minute.  Wait just a minute.

He picks up his wallet again and takes out a credit card.

EXT.  BEACH - MINUTES LATER

Chuck wades in the water, stops by a rock covered with
limpets.  He uses a CREDIT CARD to scrape off a limpet.

                     CHUCK
          Don't leave home without it.

With his finger, he prods around in the mucous-like meat,
then tilts up the shell and we see the gooey gray stuff slide
off the shell into his mouth.

                     CHUCK
          Yuck.

He starts to spit it out.  Tries to make himself like it.

                     CHUCK
          Yumm.

And he swallow it.

EXT.  BEACH - SUNSET

Chuck sits in the shade of a palm tree surrounded by a pile
of smashed coconut husks and a stack of limpet shells.  He
checks his watch for a moment.

                     CHUCK
          Got to get this fixed.

But what's the point?  Everything that was so valuable before
is useless now.

EXT.  JUNGLE - LATER

Chuck digs yet another hole.  He chants to himself, almost
delusionally.

                     CHUCK
          Water, water, everywhere, water, water
          everywhere...

Covered in sweat, desperate and exhausted, he throws down his
wooden spade.

                     CHUCK
          Where's the water on this fucking island?

He lies on his back, breathing hard.  Pulls his hat over his
eyes.

                     CHUCK
          Just rest a minute.

EXT.  JUNGLE - DAY - LATER

Chuck is lying in the hole.  We find his feet.  Slowly water
is oozing out of the clay, a puddle is building around his
toes.

EXT.  JUNGLE - DAY - LATER

Chuck's eyes snap awake.  He looks down at his feet.  There's
a pool of muddy water there.  He dips his hand in it, touches
a finger to his lips to be sure he's not dreaming.

He grabs his sharpened stone, begins to attack the clay.

                     CHUCK
          Oh yeah, oh yeah, oh yeah.

EXT.  BEACH - SUNSET

Chuck carefully makes marks on a palm tree with his rock
knife.  One for each day.  Very neat.  Very precise.  Very
Chuck.

                     CHUCK
          Let's see, I waited two days.
               (makes marks)
          Then I buried Al.
               (slowly makes another mark)
          Al.  You never made it home, buddy.  Then
          American Express got me those clam
          things...
               (makes another mark)
          I dug all those damn holes, the clouds
          over the moon...
               (makes more marks)
          And today, the historic discovery of H,
          Two, Oh.
               (makes a tenth mark and
                underlines it)
          Ten days.  Shit.

For a moment, he feels the weight of his isolation.  Then he
allows himself a deep breath.  There is order now, after all.
Time is under control.

EXT.  CLIFF - DAY

Very carefully, but standing this time, Chuck makes his way
across the ledge.

EXT.  SUMMIT - DAY

He emerges on the top, takes a drink from a hand-made
canteen, and looks in all directions.  Again, he sees nothing
but ocean.

EXT.  BEACH - DAY

He resumes his efforts at fishing.  A shape scuttles raggedly
beneath him.

                     CHUCK
          A crab, it's a crab.

He freezes, holding his spear motionless.  Then he jabs at
the crab -- misses!  The crab scurries away toward the rocks.

                     CHUCK
          Dammit!

Chuck splashes after it, stabbing as he goes, falling,
getting up, stabbing again.

Suddenly one stab feels different.  Chuck carefully lifts up
the spear.  On the end is a squirming crab.

                     CHUCK
          I did it.  I did it!

He walks carefully with it to the beach.  Lowering the spear,
he lets the crab slip off.  It darts toward the water.  Chuck
heads it off, trying to avoid the snapping claws.

He kicks it back toward the beach, then slams a rock down on
it.  He twists off a crab claw, expecting to see flaky white
meat.  But a crab has an exoskeleton.  The flesh simply pours
out, like mucous.

                     CHUCK
          Jesus.

This is too much.  He needs the next step, from the raw to
the cooked.  The crucial next step from primitive man to the
beginnings of civilization.

EXT.  PALM GROVE SERIES OF SHOTS - TRYING TO MAKE FIRE

Chuck rubs two sticks together.  Nothing.

Chuck positions a makeshift drill in a hole he has scooped
out in a piece of driftwood.  He spins the drill with great
effort.  Nothing.

                     CHUCK
          Stupid fucking thing!

He quits, exhausted.  He looks at his hands.  They are raw
and blistered.  He feels like Job.

                     CHUCK
          I don't know what I did, God, but
          whatever is was, I am really, really
          sorry.  You hear me?  Really sorry.

EXT.  BEACH - DAY

Chuck emerges from the jungle and walks to the edge of the
ocean.  He dips his blistered hands into the sea water, then
looks over at the FedEx boxes that spell out H E L P.

                     CHUCK
          Don't have a choice, do I?

He walks over and picks a few boxes up from the P.

EXT.  PALM GROVE - DAY

With his stone knife and spear to help him.  Chuck begins to
open the FedEx boxes.  Chuck rips open the end of one box and
shakes it.  Out tumble some videotapes.  Chuck looks at them:
what good are they?

Chuck tears another box open.  Out slide some legal papers
covered with Post-its.

In quick cuts, we see him dump out computer memory boards,
some designer dresses, flowers, a pair of roller blades, a
script with a red cover -- which he never reads.

EXT.  BEACH - LATER

By now he has taken all the boxes in the P.  Only H E L
remains.  He pauses to let the irony of that sink in, then
collects more boxes.  He is even more exhausted.

EXT.  PALM GROVE

Two boxes remain.  One is the box with Angel Wings.  Chuck
sets it aside.  He opens the other box.  Out tumbles a
DOCTOR'S BAG.  Chuck can't believe it.  He opens the bag.
It's full of great stuff.  Medicine.  A scalpel.  A saw.

                     CHUCK
          Okay.  Okay now.

EXT.  PALM GROVE - LATER

Hands bandaged, Chuck tries to strike a spark on the roller
blade wheel housing.  Tries over and over.  Nothing.

He takes a long drink from his canteen, and flinches.  His
tooth is starting to hurt.  He fishes some Tylenol out of the
surgeon's bag and takes two.

EXT.  OTHER SIDE OF ISLAND - DAY

Chuck picks some berries and gingerly tries them.  They're
not bad.  He eats more.  Then more.  What a relief.

EXT.  BEACH - NIGHT

Chuck lies on his palm fronds, groaning and holding his
stomach.  He drags himself to his knees, crawls a few feet,
and throws up in great, violent heaves.

EXT.  BEACH - DAY

Still looking a little green, Chuck marks another day on his
tree calendar.

EXT.  SUMMIT

He stares out to sea.  Nothing.

EXT.  WELL - DAY

Chuck lies on his belly and drinks from the well, which has
filled with water.  Then he washes his face and splashes
water over his neck.  The surface of the well stills,
bringing CHUCK'S REFLECTION into focus.  He stares at
himself.

Very carefully Chuck shaves with the surgeon's scalpel.

Chuck checks out his new appearance in the water.  Much
better.  A clean start now.

EXT.  BEACH - LATER THAT DAY

He sits in front of his failed efforts to make fire.

                     CHUCK
          You're not getting it hot enough.  Got to
          hold the heat.  Got to hold the heat.

EXT.  BEACH - LATER

Chuck carefully shaves some tinder.  Puts it under a piece of
bamboo split lengthwise with a notch cut across it.

EXT.  BEACH - LATER

Chuck uses a bamboo stick to try to make friction in the
split half of the bamboo.  He saws back and forth with all
his might, pressing it down in the groove.

EXT.  BEACH - LATER

Chuck gives one last saw with his bamboo and stops, utterly
defeated.  It's all too much.

                     CHUCK
          Sonofabitch!

He starts to rub again.  He breathes hard, sweat pours off
his face.  He is really going for it, what the hell!  A tiny
wisp of smoke appears!  Chuck saws with even more energy.

                     CHUCK
          Come on.  Come on.

The smoke increases.  Chuck rips away the bamboo, grabs the
nest of shavings, and blows on it frantically.  The smoke
flickers and dies.  Chuck can't believe it.

                     CHUCK
          No.  No.  No.

EXT.  BEACH - NIGHT

Chuck lies in his bed of palm fronds, shivering.  He looks up
at the stars, which blaze furiously.

                     CHUCK
          That's the big dipper...Orion...or is
          that the Southern Cross...?  Kelly would
          know.

And he misses her so much.  A shower of meteors streaks
across the sky, as if the very heavens are raining down on
Chuck.

EXT.  BEACH - DAY

Chuck readies his two sticks of bamboo again and begins
sawing with tremendous energy.  He smells something.  Is it
smoke?  He pulls off the log and looks eagerly at the nest of
tinder.  There's nothing there.

                     CHUCK
          Dammit!

He replaces the log and starts wearily to saw again.

TIME CUT

The sun has moved in the sky.  Chuck is still sawing.  Again
the smoke appears.  Again sweat pours from his face.  The
smoke increases.  He saws even harder.  His breath comes in
anguished gulps.  Smoke is curling up now.  Chuck tears away
the bamboo, picks up the nest of kindling, and blows on it
gently.  The smoke increases.

He blows some more.  A fragile crimson spark appears.

                     CHUCK
          Careful now, careful...

He gently places the nest of shavings in the kindling, then
blows on it with utmost care, as if he were holding life
itself.  He shreds his money and business cards over the tiny
flame.

Suddenly, the evening breeze lifts the nest out of the
kindling.  Desperate, Chuck grabs it.  Trying to shield it
with his body, he grabs some palm fronds and jams them into
the sand, trying to make a windbreak.  They rustle and shake
and blow over.

The wind blows harder.  Chuck jams some rocks in a circle to
make an eddy.  But the fire is out.  No words now, just a
loud, primal groan of pure despair.

And then, into his vision floats...smoke.

Chuck looks down.  A wisp of smoke curls up from the nest of
tinder!  Chuck blows on it gently.  Suddenly a tiny tongue of
flame flickers and catches on the kindling!

                     CHUCK
          Yes!  Yes!  Yes!

He feeds in some more twigs, more tinder.  The flames lick
out, catch, grow.

                     CHUCK
          If I ever forgot to thank you God, and I
          am sure I did, thank you now.

EXT.  BEACH - WIDE - NIGHT

The fire burns on the beach.  Chuck rushes about, piling on
driftwood.

EXT.  BEACH - CLOSER

Chuck darts into the jungle and returns dragging a huge log.
He throws it on the fire.  We see his face in the light of
the fire.  He is exultant.  He dances.  He sings at the top
of his lungs.  Papa-ooo-mow-mow!

Chuck throws another huge log on the fire.  Papa-papa-papa-
oooo!  The log splutters and explodes, sending up a huge
shower of sparks that climb and sparkle in the
darkness...until they merge with the stars.

EXT.  PALM GROVE - MORNING

Chuck makes a mark on the tree.  Around it he carves a flame
-- the day he mastered fire.

EXT.  PALM GROVE - LATER THAT MORNING

Chuck sharpens his spear with his stone knife.  Then he
sticks it in the flame to harden it, pulls it out, checks it,
scrapes some more.

EXT.  BEACH - DAY

Chuck wades in the water with his spear.  Suddenly he stabs
it down.  A crab is on the end.

EXT.  BEACH - HALF HOUR LATER

Chuck removes a crab from out of the fire and breaks a
steaming crab claw.  Chuck takes a bite of the flaky white
meat.  Ahhh.  It tastes great.  He takes another bite -- and
flinches.

                     CHUCK
          Damn tooth!

He fumbles for his Tylenol and takes two pills.

EXT.  SUMMIT - SUNSET

Chuck stands on the summit, looking in all directions.  Then,
something on the island brings Chuck's eyes back from their
distant focus on the horizon.  From down on the beach,
beneath the palm grove, there curls a thin column of smoke.
Chuck lets a bit of pride creep into his face as he sees it.
He kneels down and begins to build a signal fire.

EXT.  BEACH - NIGHT - LATER

Chuck curls up in his bed of palm fronds.  The fire burns.
Around it is a large stack of crab shells.  He stares into
the fire.

EXT.  PALM GROVE - MORNING

Chuck makes another mark on the tree.  He has circled the
tree with marks several times now.

EXT.  BEACH - DAY

Using a safety pin and some suturing thread, Chuck fishes
carefully.  Suddenly he jerks his hand back.  On the end is a
flopping fish.

EXT.  PALM GROVE - DAY

Chuck takes a cooked fish off the fire and mixes it with some
breadfruit.  He eats the soft mixture, chewing carefully, but
his tooth hurts even worse.  There are only a few Tylenol
tablets left.  He carefully cuts one in half and swallows it.

EXT.  SUMMIT - AFTERNOON

Chuck arrives with the wood for the night.  He stares out to
sea as usual, but this time he sees something different.

WHALES.  He sees whales.  Leaping.  Broaching.  Spouting.
Water pouring off fins and flukes.  Moving.  Going somewhere.

                     CHUCK
          Beautiful.  So beautiful.

Chuck stares at them, stares until the ocean darkens and he
can see them no more.  It's late now.

Leaving, he takes one last look, as he always does.  And
another remarkable sight greets his eyes.  There, on the
horizon, just below the evening star, is a...LIGHT.  He
stares at it, fixed.

                     CHUCK
          A star.  It's a star.

But then he stares at it really hard.

                     CHUCK
          It's a ship.

EXT.  WOODS - TREE - NEXT DAY

A tree shakes and moves, quivers...

                     CHUCK
          Timberrr!

...then slowly falls with a CRASH!

                     CHUCK
          I heard that...

Chuck holds his surgeon's saw over the stump.  He walks to
another tree and begins to saw his way into the trunk.

EXT.  BEACH - SERIES OF SHOTS

Up above the high tide line, Chuck lashes a log to a row of
five logs already joined with vines.

                     CHUCK
          No more waiting.  Take action.

Chuck sews several designer dresses together with needle and
suturing thread for a sail.

                     CHUCK
          That's right.  Take action.

He cuts bamboo for the mast.  He carves driftwood for an oar.

He fills gourds with water, stores breadfruit and coconut as
he sings "Fly Me to the Moon" to himself.

He ties the sail to the mast and extends it with a bamboo
boom lashed on with palm fiber and video tape.  He ties on
the doctor's kit and the FedEx box with the angel wings.

He examines his handiwork:  a finished raft.

He brings out his old life preserver and puts it on, then
grabs hold of one corner of the raft to pull it down to the
beach.  It doesn't budge.  He tries to pull it again.
Nothing.  He leans his back into it and pushes with his legs.
Nothing.  He collapses on the beach, his breath coming in
heaves.

                     CHUCK
          How could I be so stupid?

He bangs himself on the head, over and over.

                     CHUCK
          Stupid, stupid, stupid.

EXT.  PALM GROVE - NIGHT

Chuck throws new firewood on the dwindling fire.  It comes
back to life.  Meteors streak again across the sky.  He
stares at the indifferent stars.  The moon is almost full.
Shadows of palm trees sway on the sand.

EXT.  BEACH - NIGHT

Chuck stands by the edge of the water, which shimmers in the
reflected light of the fire.  A wave come in, licks at his
toes.  Lifts up a coconut husk, sweeps it gently out.  Chuck
watches, gets an idea.

EXT.  BEACH - NIGHT

He begins to dig in the sand by the raft.  He grabs the oar
and digs faster, making a trench up to where the raft is.

EXT.  BEACH - MORNING

The rising tide floods water into the trench.  Chuck rocks
the raft back and forth.  It floats!  As the wave recedes, it
takes the raft with it.  Chuck has to run beside it.

CHUCK TRYING TO ESCAPE - MONTAGE

Over and over, we see Chuck capsize at the reef.  The first
time he has a bandage on his leg.  He tries everything --
different rafts, different approaches, but each time the
ocean spits him back.

EXT.  LAGOON - DAY

Defeated and utterly exhausted, Chuck swims back from his
latest failure.  He wades back ashore with the FedEx box and
throws it on the ground by the palm tree.  He has tried so
hard to escape, so incredibly hard, done everything humanly
possible and beyond.  He rips off his life preserver, throws
it into the underbrush, then collapses on the beach.

                     CHUCK
          You're too low in the water.  Too damn
          low.

Chuck's shoulders begin to shake, as he is racked with deep
sobs of despair.

And then he throws his head back and lets forth, from deep
inside himself, a SCREAM of rage and anger and pain.  The
Scream pierces the indifferent natural sounds of the island,
the rustling of the breeze, the lulling rhythm of the waves.
It is powerful, disturbing, primal.

The breeze picks up.  Behind Chuck, the palm trees begin to
sway.  The tide is reaching up toward the beach.  The waves
crash louder.  The palm trees sway even more.

Chuck picks up some wet sand and rubs it on his body.

                     CHUCK
          Dust thou art -- that's for damned sure
          -- and unto dust shalt thou return.

A few DROPS OF RAIN begin to fall, splashing on Chuck and
sizzling in the fire.

Chuck looks up:  clouds have obscured the sun.  The wind
blows harder.  The rain falls harder, streaking the sand
Chuck had rubbed on his body.  STEAM sizzles out of the fire.

Chuck looks up, disbelieving.  The bottom falls out of the
heavens -- monsoon rain, more rain than you have ever seen
before.  A long wave rolls up, its frothy fingers reaching
for the fire.

Forget the raft!  Forget despair!  The fire could go out!
This is disaster!

                     CHUCK
          Shit!

He springs into action.  Chuck grabs an empty FedEx box.
With his wooden shovel he frantically SCOOPS SOME COALS out
of the fire as the rain HISSES and POUNDS at them.  He slides
the coals into the FedEx box, grabs some sticks of driftwood
and sets off on a run.

EXT.  WOODS - DAY

Chuck runs through the woods, slipping and stumbling.  Vines
grab at him.  The rain is so thick he can hardly see.

EXT.  WOODS - MINUTES LATER

Chuck bursts out of the woods into the lava field.  Smoke
pours out of the FedEx box.  The coals are about to burn
through!

EXT.  LAVA FIELD - MOMENTS LATER

Chuck stumbles up the slippery rocks, dragging the smoking
box.  His face is drenched, desperate.

EXT.  CAVE - DAY - MINUTES LATER

Chuck tumbles into the cave just as the coals burn through
the FedEx box.

Using the remains of the box, he desperately tries to scoot
the coals into a dry spot.

One by one, THE PRECIOUS COALS GO OUT.

Dripping water off his hands and face, he pushes a few
together with his fingers, ignoring the burns.

                     CHUCK
          Please...please...please...

He stomps on the driftwood and saws at it with his knife.  He
places this kindling on the coals.  They sputter and sizzle.
Barely catch.  He fans them with the box.  A tiny flicker
catches, then starts to grow.

                     CHUCK
          Firewood.  I need firewood.

SERIES OF SHOTS

On the beach, Chuck desperately gathers more firewood in the
driving monsoon.  He can barely see.  Driven by the storm,
the waves are licking at the palm grove.

He runs through the woods.  Branches whip at his face.  Roots
tear at his feet, tripping him.

He stumbles up the lava field.  Sliding.  Struggling.  Barely
able to breathe, the rain is so strong.

INT.  CAVE - DAY

He dumps the firewood on the floor of the cave.  But where
the fire had flickered, there is only a pile of wet black
ashes.

THE FIRE IS OUT.

INT.  CAVE - NIGHT

Chuck lies on the floor of the cave, shivering in the
darkness as the rain falls.  His fire is out, his tooth is
killing him, he can't escape.

EXT.  CAVE - NEXT DAY

Chuck emerges from the cave.  The rain has stopped.  This is
the absolute lowest.  His face reflects his pain and despair.
He's trapped.  It's hopeless.  Everything he tried to build
is gone.

EXT.  LEDGE - DAY

Chuck slowly walks out on the ledge.  He stares down at the
waves breaking on the jagged rocks far below.

He lets go one hand.  Then lets go the other.  He is barely
balanced.  It looks like a wisp of breeze would blow him
right off.  He slides one foot to the very lip of the
precipice.

Suddenly his foot slips!

Instinctively he turns into the cliff, grabs for a hold!  One
hand reaches for a nubbing of rock, slips off!  The other
closes, his fingers straining to hold him.

He breathes in deep gasps.  He had wanted to end it, come so
close.

                     CHUCK
          What the fuck are you doing?

His deepest instinct was to survive.  And that is what he is
going to do.

                     CHUCK
          Hang on.  Just hang on.

Slowly he pulls himself back from the edge.

EXT.  BEACH - LATER

Chuck walks aimlessly down the beach, feeling the burden of
starting over.  The beach is littered with seaweed and
flotsam, bits of rope, plastic bottles.  He picks up a
plastic bottle.  That will come in handy.

The Chuck sees a SOCCER BALL with "Wilson" stamped on it in
big black letters.

He picks it up, holds it, tosses it up in the air.  Then he
kicks it, then kicks it again, then runs down the beach,
trying to kick it and keep it out of the water.  Feeling joy
again, even here.

INT.  CAVE - THAT DAY

The sun is setting on his darkened cave.  The soccer ball
sits in the corner by the black cold ashes of what was once
his fire.

Chuck carves a bit of coconut meat, takes a bite and winces
as the meat hits his sore tooth.  He tosses the shell on a
small new pile of shells.

Chuck shakes out the last half Tylenol tablet.  He puts the
tablet in his mouth, then takes a sip out of his coconut
canteen.  When the water hits his tooth that hurts too.

INT.  CAVE - MORNING

Chuck mixes a mash of breadfruit and coconut.  He tries to
pack the tooth with the mash, but it's so sensitive that even
this hurts.  He pounds the floor of the cave in frustration.

INT.  CAVE - LATER

Chuck holds a stone chisel and his hammer stone.  He
positions the chisel against his inflamed tooth.  But the
thought of what he is about to do is too frightening.  He
lowers the chisel.

                     CHUCK
          Shit.  Shit.  Shit.

EXT.  BEACH - DAY

Chuck tries to fill his mouth with sea water.  The pain is so
great his eyes water.

                     CHUCK
          Whoo, pig.  Sooey!

He falls back in the water and floats there, looking up at
the sky.

INT.  CAVE - LATER

Determined, Chuck hold the stone chisel again.  He raises it
slowly to his mouth and picks up the hammer stone.

                     CHUCK
          No pain, no gain.

He brings the hammer down hard on the chisel!  The screen
goes BLACK as Chuck's SCREAM continues UNDER.

FADE IN:

EXT.  OCEAN - SUNRISE - THREE YEARS LATER

The sky takes on the first colors of the day.  The ocean is
still dark, but a few waves catch the first light.  The
sunrise touches the summit, moves down the cliff, then lights
the cove.  On the screen superimpose:

                     "1000 DAYS LATER"

REFLECTION - WATER

A spear shimmers in the calm morning water.  Attached to the
spear is a man, standing completely still.

ON CHUCK

We move up out of the reflection to the real man.  His legs
are scarred.  The remnants of a dress wrap around his middle.
A stone knife on a neatly mounted haft is stuck in a belt
made of videotape and woven fiber.  Necklaces of shark's
teeth and shells hang from his neck.  His hair is long.  A
coconut frond hat is on his head.

The hand wrapped around the spear is scarred and brown as a
berry.  It holds the spear perfectly still.  The watch is
gone.

We come around slowly until we see Chuck's face.  The eyes
say it all.  They stare out with a survivor's intensity,
staring at the water, unblinking.  This is the man who used
to splash futilely about in the water trying to fish.

This is the FedEx man who was plugged into the tumult of
activity and energy, surrounded by technology and human
activity at its most intense, devoted to making seconds
count.  Now he is utterly alone, and utterly still.

And now he has all the time in the world.

Suddenly, without an once of wasted motion, he shoots the
spear forward at a low angle.  It quivers, stuck on the
bottom.  He pulls it out with a practiced twist.  On the end
is a struggling fish.

But this isn't a thrill anymore.  It's another day at the
office.

EXT.  BEACH - LATER THAT DAY

Chuck makes a mark on a palm tree.  He has completely covered
three other trees with marks.  It sinks in how long he has
been here.

EXT.  JUNGLE - LATER

Chuck carries the fish back from the beach.  Now there is a
well-worn trail.

INT.  CAVE - THAT AFTERNOON

Chuck enters with the fish.  We are greeted with the well-
ordered lair of a primitive stone-age man.

Clam shell spirals weave in and out around the fire hole.
Strips of eel jerky and fish hang drying from racks.

Tools are lined up neatly:  digging sticks, stone hammers and
saws, spears neatly hafted onto shafts, drills, awls.  Bits
and pieces of feathers, skins, bones, rags, leaves -- are all
neatly arranged.  Strings and cords hang from hooks.  Coconut
bowls and cooking rocks form a small kitchen.  A raincoat and
rain-hat woven of palm fronds is neatly draped over a frame.

Evocative pieces of driftwood decorate the room.  A wind
chime of obsidian flakes sways gently.  The watch hangs on a
stick.

The Angel Box has the place of honor on one side.  On the
other side the Wilson soccer ball rests on a throne of rocks.
Seaweed has been placed on the ball as hair.  Clam shells
have been stuck on for eyes, other shells form a mouth.  A
tube shell and conch form a pipe.

INT.  CAVE - FIRE - NIGHT

The fish are being smoke under a palm frond.  Eel skins hang
from sticks, roasting.  Chuck sits by the fire, hafting a
stone knife onto a wooden haft.

He ties some fiber to a stick, then braids it into string,
using both hands and his mouth for the three strands.

He ties the string tightly around the shaft.  He does his
work automatically.

INT.  CAVE - NIGHT - LATER

Chuck eats some fish and some mashed breadfruit.  He chews
each bite, his eyes in distant focus.  The firelight flickers
on his face.

EXT.  CLIFF - SUNRISE

Chuck carries firewood up to the summit.  He mechanically
adds wood to the fire.  As he does so, something out to sea
catches his eye.  He stops and stands up.

CHUCK'S POV - WHALES

WHALES broach out past the rocky point.  Spouts of water
shoot into the air.

ON CHUCK

As he watches them, a light comes back into his eyes.  He
grins.  There's a big gap where his teeth had been.  He turns
and strides down the hill.

EXT.  CLIFF - MOMENTS LATER

He heads across the rock bridge that once had so terrified
him, without losing stride.  It's second nature now.

INT.  CAVE - MOMENTS LATER

Chuck enters the cave, picks up the ball and heads out.

EXT.  SUMMIT - EVENING

The signal fire burns.  A spectacular cloudy sunset lights up
the sky.  Chuck sits with Wilson on the summit, a bowl of
mashed breadfruit in one hand, a bowl of roasted eel skin in
another.

As Chuck watches the sunset unfold, watches the whales going
by in the darkened water, he takes some roasted eel chips,
dips them into the breadfruit paste, and offers one to
Wilson.  His voice is flat, monotonal.

                     CHUCK
          Chips?  Dip?

But Wilson declines.

                     CHUCK
          No?

He takes a big crunchy bite.

                     CHUCK
          Another fucking day in paradise.

PULL BACK as the sun goes down and Chuck reaches into the
bowl again and dips an eel skin chip in the dip.

EXT.  ROCKY LEDGE - NIGHT - LATER

Torch in one hand, Wilson in the other, Chuck walks across
the rocky ledge.  He passes the flume without even noticing.

Suddenly his shoe breaks!  It's sandal made of woven yucca
leaves.

He bends down and fixes it, then heads on down the ledge.

EXT.  LEDGE - MOMENTS LATER

Chuck makes a casual leap, a leap he has made hundreds of
times, but this time the sandal comes loose.  It catches on a
rock, and CHUCK FALLS!

His hands are cut and bruised.  He tries to get up, can't.
Chuck sits back and examines his foot.  His fingers come back
covered with blood.  He reaches out to steady himself, and
leaves a HANDPRINT OF BLOOD on the rock.

INT.  CAVE - LATER

Chuck wraps his foot in bandages.

INT.  CAVE - LATER

Chuck's face is sweaty.  He looks down at his foot.  It is
red, swollen, infected.  He stands up, tries to put some
weight on it.  The pain is intense.

Chuck sticks the scalpel onto some coals to sterilize it.  He
holds it over his foot, takes a breath, then jabs in into the
wound.  The pain is intense.  Chuck passes out.

INT.  CAVE - NIGHT

Chuck stirs, takes a drink, weakly tosses on another log, and
collapses back on the floor.

INT.  CAVE - DAY

Chuck wakes up, trembling, shaking, wet with sweat.  He
staggers up.  His shadow sways on the wall of the cave.  He
struggles to get another log on the fire.  He squints at his
only companion, the soccer ball.

                     CHUCK
          Help me, Wilson...

He collapses again.

INT.  CAVE - NIGHT

Chuck stirs and squints his eyes.  He takes a drink of water.
He is feeling better.  He puts another log on the fire and
slowly begins to chew on some breadfruit and dried fish.

EXT.  BEACH - LATER

Chuck slowly wades into the water, favoring his injured foot.
But something feels different.  He glances around.  What is
it?  And then he sees something, perhaps the worst possible
sight.

CHUCK'S POV - SAIL

A SAIL is moving steadily away from the island.

CHUCK

Throws down the spear and waves his arms.

                     CHUCK
          No!  Wait!  Come back!

He runs into the water and starts to swim.  He is so weak,
however, he can only make a few strokes.  He tries to yell as
he swims...

                     CHUCK
          Wait!  Wait!

Choking and weak, he turns back and drags himself up on the
beach.  In the b.g., the sail dwindles into the distance.

EXT.  SUMMIT - LATER

Chuck struggles to the top of the hill.  His fire has been
extinguished by the rain.  In the distance, far against the
horizon, he sees a sail -- or is it a cloud?  The whiteness
shimmers against the horizon.  Chuck squints.  Whatever it
was, it is gone.  Above him some contrails from jets mark the
sky.

Furious, he kicks his signal fire, scattering the burnt-out
coals.

EXT.  BEACH - LATER THAT DAY

Chuck makes a new mark on his calendar tree.  Then he stops.
He CUTS an angry big line under the last mark, then hacks
away at the palm tree, slashing it with the stone knife,
ripping and marking through all his dates.  Finally the stone
knife breaks in two.  Chuck drops the broken half and catches
his breath.

EXT.  CAVE - NIGHT

Chuck enters the cave.  No signal fires burn.  The island is
dark.

EXT.  SUMMIT - DAY

Chuck stands on the summit, staring out to sea.  Nothing, not
even a contrail, not even a whale spout.

EXT.  CLIFF - MOMENTS LATER

He is on his way down, suddenly he sees something and stops.
It's the HANDPRINT, the bloody handprint, his own handprint.

He slowly extends his hand and covers it, then pulls it away.
Traces it with his fingers.

INT.  CAVE - DAYS LATER

Chuck has the beginnings of an artist's studio.  Several
large clam shells hold paint.  A few egg shells are lined up.
Brushes have been made from roots and feathers.

Chuck covers his hand with paint and makes a handprint on the
wall of the cave.  He stands back and looks at it.

INT.  CAVE - DAY

He chews some berries, then holds his hand against the wall
of the cave and spits a dark blue mist around it.  When he
takes his hand away, the silhouette of his handprint remains.

INT.  CAVE - DAY

With the Angel Wing Box as a model, Chuck dips one of his
feather brushes in paint, and make a tentative line on the
wall of the cave.  He works hesitantly, rubs off a line,
tries again.

INT.  CAVE - NIGHT

Chuck is finishing his first figure, a crude portrait of a
man -- himself?  Hard to tell.  He examines his work.  He
takes some shells and sticks them on as eyes.

Chuck picks up Wilson, thinks.

                     CHUCK
          You old airhead, you need a makeover.

He takes some charcoal out of his fire and draws eyebrows on
the ball.  Then, he mashes some berries, dips his fingers in
the juice, and makes lips.  He sticks shells on with clay for
eyes.  Then he looks at the face.

                     CHUCK
          Wilson, you bad!

He sits back and regards his companion.  He gestures around
the cave at the new paintings.

                     CHUCK
          What do you think?

But Wilson doesn't have an opinion.

                     CHUCK
          You don't share much, do you?

Idly Chuck takes down the Angel Box.

                     CHUCK
          I guess I know how Kelly felt.

For a long time he studies the wings on it.  With a stick, he
tries to draw a similar wing on the dusty floor of the cave.
Dissatisfied, he wipes it away.  He looks at the Angel Box.

Casually he reaches over and cuts it open with a stone knife.
Inside he finds two bottles of green salsa.  And a letter.

He reads over it.

                     CHUCK
          You said our life was a prison.  Dull.
          Boring.  Empty.  I can't begin to tell
          you how much that hurt.  I don't want to
          lose you.  I'm enclosing some salsa, the
          verde you like.  Use it on your sticky
          rice and think of home.  Then come home
          -- to me.  We'll find the spice in our
          lives again.  Together.  I love you.
          Always.  Bettina.

Visibly moved, Chuck puts down the letter.

                     CHUCK
          He never got it.

EXT.  ISLAND - DAY

The monsoon pours down.  Wind whips the palm trees.  The
waves are gray and angry, tearing at the beach.

INT.  CAVE - DAY

As the rain pours down outside, Chuck studies the sodden,
ruined photograph of Kelly, which is really only a gray mess.

                     CHUCK
          She's probably found someone else.  I
          would have.

Chuck dips his finger into one of the bowls of colors and
streaks it slowly across his face.  To exorcise his
loneliness, he will paint on the most expressive canvas there
is:  his own body.

CHUCK PAINTING HIMSELF - MONTAGE

Close-up on scarred fingers, as they paint on Chuck's face
and body.  Color on skin.  Tight dramatic shots of Chuck
being transformed.

Chuck takes white paint and covers his hand.  Then he presses
it into his chest and makes a handprint.  He draws a yellow
spiral on his leg, then takes red and makes jagged lightning
bolts on his chest on either side of the hand.

WATER

Shimmers in a gourd.  Chuck's face swims into focus.  It has
been painted white.  Looking at himself in the reflection, he
dots on blue stars with dark blue from squid ink.

EXT.  CAVE - LATER

The rains have stopped.  The island is washed bright and
green.

ON CHUCK

As he stands up in the cove.  His face is white with blue
stars.  Handprints circle his torso, flanked by red lightning
bolts.  Braided cords circle his biceps.  Bone necklaces hang
from his neck.  Feathers jut out from his hair.

EXT.  JUNGLE - DAY

Chuck goes from tree to tree, making handprints along his
path.  Chuck was here.  This is his mark.

EXT.  PALM GROVE - DAY

He covers the calendar trees with handprints.  Then stops.
Sees something.  Eyes fixed on the beach, he walks toward the
shoreline.

EXT.  BEACH - DAY

Chuck emerges from the palm trees, and now we see what he had
seen.

A FIFTY-FIVE GALLON OIL DRUM.

And another one.  TWO.  Chuck stares at the barrels.

                     CHUCK
          Hello.

EXT.  BEACH - LATER

Chuck sits staring at the oil drums.  It's almost as if he is
hesitating to take advantage of them.  That he may not want,
really, to leave now.

Then his inner struggle ends.

                     CHUCK
          What the hell are you waiting for?

EXT.  BEACH - LATER

Filled with determination, Chuck rolls a barrel up the beach.

EXT.  BEACH - LATER

Using a palm tree as a fulcrum, Chuck hauls hard on a rope
made of vines, pulling the barrel up off the beach.

EXT.  JUNGLE - DAY

Chuck throws aside palm leaves, revealing...the remains of
his raft.

INT.  CAVE - NIGHT

Chuck is drawing with a purpose now.  And we see what he is
working on.  The plans for a raft.

INT.  CAVE - NIGHT

Chuck is making a list of what he needs.  He works intently.

                     CHUCK
          Canteens.  Sea anchor.  Got to weave
          rope.  Spears.  A sail.

EXT.  JUNGLE - DAY

Chuck lashes the barrels onto the raft.  Checks the knots.
Lashes more rope.

INT.  CAVE - NIGHT

He sews dresses together with handmade fiber string.

INT.  CAVE - NIGHT

He weaves videotape together to form a sea anchor.

EXT.  BEACH - DAY

Chuck digs a channel toward the raft.

INT.  CAVE - DAY

Chuck constructs a water collection device with some FedEx
boxes, some plastic weighted with a stone.  Explains it to
Wilson.

                     CHUCK
          Now I'm hoping that if this is airtight
          I'll get condensation down here, a cup or
          so a day.  If I'm careful it should be
          enough.

INT.  CAVE - NIGHT

Chuck writes on the wall.

                     CHUCK
          If I never return, know that here lived
          Chuck Noland for four years.  I drew
          these paintings.  I made these marks.
          And then I took my fate in my own hands
          and set forth to save myself, God
          willing.

EXT.  BEACH - DAY

Chuck loads the raft, which rocks gently in the cove.  He has
a sail made of designer dresses sewn together with fiber
thread.  A sea anchor secured by videotape woven together
into a rope.  Plastic bottles filled with water.  A signal
kite made of FedEx paper.

Then comes the FedEx box with the angel wings.  Then Wilson.

                     CHUCK
          Wilson, my main man.  Time to go.

And he gently leads the raft into the lagoon.

                     CHUCK
          Wonder what odds Stan would give me on
          this.  I'd say 90-10.  Against.

He jumps onto the raft, begins to paddle out toward where the
surf crashes onto the reef.

EXT.  LAGOON - DAY

Waves break against the reef.  With his paddles Chuck
maneuvers the raft toward the cut in the reef.  Boom!  The
wave crashes, the water surges through the cut, then recedes
with a whoosh.

Chuck watches, times the waves, paddles like mad.  He's
committed.  SCRAPE goes the first barrel, then the second,
riding the receding wave.  He's out!

But the next wave is already surging forward.  It smashes the
raft against the reef!  Coconuts and foodstuffs hurtle off
the raft!

The barrels cushion the impact.  The raft tilts, spins, but
stays outside the reef!  The ropes holding the jugs of water
break!  The water sweeps overboard!

The wave recedes again.  Chuck recovers, paddles with all his
strength, and then he's clear of the breakers!

For a long moment he floats on the rollers, getting his
breath.

The water jugs float away, carried by the waves back into the
lagoon.  Chuck could go back and get them.  If he were being
prudent, he definitely would.

But he's out.  He might never get back out again.

He stares at the lagoon and the receding water jugs.  Then he
stares at the island.  Goodbye to all that.

                     CHUCK
          Wilson, we're out of here.

He turns and begins raising the sail.

EXT.  OCEAN - WIDE - MINUTES LATER

Powered by its multicolored makeshift sail, trailing its
gently flapping signal kite of FedEx paper, the raft slowly
moves away from the island, out toward the open ocean.

And we pull back until the ocean swallows the tiny raft and
then we TILT DOWN AND...

                                                 DISSOLVE TO:

EXT.  OCEAN - DAY - FOUR WEEKS LATER

The ocean again, low.  The raft floats into frame.  A trace
of a breeze flaps the signal kite, which barely stays aloft,
its rope frayed and tattered.  The still is set up in the
middle, plastic with a rock weighting down the center.

Chuck is gaunt, his clothes rotted.

He lies looking over the side of the raft, spear in one hand,
staring intently at the water.

Dorados swim like specters, flashing and darting.  Chuck
stabs with his spear.  Stabs again.

                     CHUCK
          Slow down, damn you!

Exhausted, he sinks back to the raft.  Two Dorados leap into
the air ahead of him.

Chuck tries to stare again into the water.  He spots another
fish, a flash of silver under the surface.

Chuck struggles to his feet, raises his spear.  SPLAT!
Something strikes him in the chest, almost knocking him into
the water.

On the raft we see flashes of silver and green and blue.  A
FLYING FISH.  Chuck dives at it, catches it, loses it.

                     CHUCK
          Catch it catch it catch it --

He catches it again just as it almost flops over the side.

EXT.  RAFT - MOMENTS LATER

Chuck sucks the juice out of the head.  He chews meat off the
tiny rib bones.

Chuck is in the stage of malnutrition, vitamin deprivation,
salt insufficiency, and exposure where the personality splits
and becomes external.  Like all castaways, he has
conversations with the two sides of himself.

                     GOODCHUCK
          Save some for tomorrow.

                     BADCHUCK
          Catch another fish tomorrow.

BadChuck wins.  Chuck keeps eating.  He stares up at the sun,
which beats down unmercifully.

EXT.  RAFT - DAY - LATER

The raft drifts.  Chuck has taken down the sail and rigged it
as a canopy.  Drenched with sweat, Chuck lies on the raft,
trying to sleep.  He dabs at some sores that are ulcerating
his body and won't let him get comfortable.  Plus, there's a
chaffing, squeaking sound.  He looks around for the source.

We see it with him.  One of the ropes is frayed and about to
break.  If it does, the logs will come apart from the floats.

                     BADCHUCK
          Shit!  Shit!  Shit!

                     GOODCHUCK
          Stay calm, identify the problem.
          Problem, rope fraying.  Solution, fix
          rope.

                     BADCHUCK
          With what?  There's nothing to fix it
          with.  This rope comes undone, you're
          going to drown.

                     GOOD CHUCK
          Just get up and fix it.

                     BADCHUCK
          Too tired.

                     GOODCHUCK
          Get up.

                     BADCHUCK
          Feels so good to lie here.

                     GOODCHUCK
          Get up, damn you.

Chuck comes to his knees.  Then sinks back down.

                     BADCHUCK
          Can't.  Need water.

                     GOODCHUCK
          You've had today's water.

                     BADCHUCK
          Thirsty.

                     GOODCHUCK
          Come on, shape up, get going, you can do
          it.

                     BADCHUCK
          No water, no work.

Chuck tries another tack.  Sweet reason.

                     GOODCHUCK
          Okay look, I know you're tired, I know
          you're thirsty, but give it one more
          shot, you've just got to do a little
          more.

                     BADCHUCK
          Do too much, I'll die.

                     GOODCHUCK
          Do too little you'll die.

                     BADCHUCK
          Going to die anyway.

That stops GoodChuck for a moment.

                     GOODCHUCK
          Okay, look have an extra swallow.

He holds up the pathetic little jar with its few teaspoons of
murky water.

                     BADCHUCK
          No more water, you said.

                     GOODCHUCK
          Take it.

                     BADCHUCK
          No.

                     GOODCHUCK
          Take it, damn it.

                     BADCHUCK
          No.

                     GOODCHUCK
          Wilson, do you believe this?  Take the
          damn water.

Slowly Chuck gets up, lifts up the water jar, and takes a
swallow.  Then another.

                     GOODCHUCK
          Stop.  Enough.

Then another.

EXT.  RAFT - DAY - LATER

Chuck works to braid a new rope.  He is focused,
concentrating as hard as he can, but everything is slow and
hard and he's weak and clumsy.  He tests the rope, but it
doesn't hold.

                     GOODCHUCK
          Think.  Got to use something else.

He gets an idea, starts to pull the signal kite in.

                     BADCHUCK
          If they can't see you, what's the point?

                     GOODCHUCK
          Survive today, that's the point.

The kite rope is much thinner than the rope he had used to
tie the logs, but it's all he has.  He ties the log with the
kite rope.  Exhausted, he lies back down.

EXT.  RAFT - NIGHT

The moon is full.  The waves cast off shadows on the ocean.
Chuck is staring into the sky, trying to find a star to
navigate by.

                     GOODCHUCK
          Polaris, where are you?  Maybe I'm too
          far south.

                     BADCHUCK
          You don't know where you are.  You missed
          the shipping lanes.

                     GOODCHUCK
          Moon's too bright.

We hear the fraying sound again.

EXT.  RAFT - DAY

Chuck saws at the outer log with his stone knife.  Across the
water comes a storm.  We can see it like a waterfall moving
toward us.

                     BADCHUCK
          You're putting off the inevitable.

                     GOODCHUCK
          I'm putting it off.

He looks at the deteriorating rope, at the rotting sail.

                     BADCHUCK
          That's what's happening to you.

Chuck pushes the outer log away, then takes the loose rope
and begins to lash it around the center logs.

                     BADCHUCK
          You're rotting away.

The raft is rocking.  The waves are stronger.  It's hard to
tie the logs together.

Rain falls like a sheet on Chuck.

                     BADCHUCK
          Get water!

                     GOODCHUCK
          Fix raft first.

                     BADCHUCK
          Water water water --

Chuck works frantically in the rain, trying to tie the rope.
Finally he does.

Then he scrambles for his water collecting funnel, struggles
to pull it up.  One corner is stuck and collapses.
Desperately he rights it, pulls the funnel up.

Drops begin to run down the sides and collect in the jar.
Soaked, Chuck stares at the water as it rises.

Then the rain stops.

We see the line of rain recede away from Chuck, spattering
the ocean.  But all around him the ocean is calm again.

And out comes the sun.

EXT.  OCEAN - DAY

The raft floats on quiet seas.  The sky is blue, with few
high cirrus clouds so motionless they seem pasted on.

Chuck lies on the raft, sick and weak.

Suddenly, from the depths beside him, silently rises a huge
shape.

A SPERM WHALE, still mainly submerged.  The blow hole is near
Chuck, wet and pulsing like giant lips.  The eye of the whale
is only a few feet away.  It looks upon Chuck out of an
intelligence deep and alien.

He slowly comes to his knees and stares at it.

The blow hole opens and WHOOSH, out shoots a geyser of fine
spray which settles on Chuck in a mist.

The whale rises farther, dwarfing the raft.  From the whale
comes a deep sound like a foghorn.

Startled, Chuck jumps back, rocking the raft.  He catches
himself, slowly reaches out and touches the whale.

The whale blows again, drenching Chuck in more spray.

Chuck touches the whale again.

                     GOODCHUCK
          You like that?

Very slowly it drifts along with the raft.

                     GOODCHUCK
          Lost your mate?

We look right into the whale's eye.  Beneath the surface we
can see the huge jaws open and close.

                     GOODCHUCK
          You're beautiful.  Marry me.

                     BADCHUCK
          You idiot, if he dives, he'll capsize the
          raft.

Very slowly the whale moves ahead of the raft, its vast body
passing Chuck.

                     GOODCHUCK
          No, don't go.  Look, I've got fish.

Chuck rips a fillet off the line and throws it in front of
the whale, which ignores it.

                     GOODCHUCK
          Please don't dive.  Please.

The whale slowly sinks, then suddenly arches its huge back
and heads straight for the bottom.

For a moment, all that remains are the flukes, black and
vertical against the dark blue sky.  With one swoop, those
flukes could destroy Chuck and his raft.  But they don't do
anything except slowly sink.

Then it is gone.

We are on Chuck's face as he stares at where the whale had
been, the surface marked only by a ring of concentric ripples
that reach out and gently rock the raft.

EXT.  OCEAN - DAY

Chuck checks the water.  It is green and full of floaties.
It looks awful.  He takes the jug, puts it to his mouth, and
drinks.  Instantly he throws up back into the jug, barely
keeps from dropping it.

                     BADCHUCK
          Look what you've done.

He dips his hand into the ocean, splashes some sea water on
his face, splutters it out, then licks his lips.  He is so
thirsty.

He looks at the water jug, full now with his own vomit, turns
away, begins to work on the sea anchor again.

But the work makes him even thirstier.  He looks at the jug
again.

Picks it up.  Takes a long drink.

EXT.  OCEAN - DAY

The fish return.  Chuck gets up with his spear, then puts it
down.

                     BADCHUCK
          What are you doing?

                     GOODCHUCK
          Can't kill another one.  Can't.  Can't
          kill my friends anymore.

                     BADCHUCK
          You fucking bleeding heart, you kill or
          you die.

                     GOODCHUCK
          Why do they have to die for me?

                     BADCHUCK
          They'd eat you if they could.  They're
          laughing at you.  Listen.

Chuck listens.  Doesn't hear anything.

                     GOODCHUCK
          Got to eat.

Chuck picks up the spear, stabs it, misses.

Suddenly he has a fish on the end of the spear.  It
struggles, he scoops it onto the raft, brutally pounds on its
head, twists the stone knife into its spine.  The struggling
stops.

Chuck looks at the dead fish and begins to sob.

                     GOODCHUCK
          I am so sorry.

He cries uncontrollably.  As he cries he cuts off the head,
pulls out the eyeballs, and eats each one.  Then he sucks the
marrow out of the head.

Then takes the heart and eats that.  Then eats the liver.

As he is chewing, he cuts the meat into strips.

When he is done, he takes the backbone, breaks it, and sucks
on it.

Fish scales shine in his hair, blood covers his chest.

EXT.  OCEAN - NIGHT

The raft rocks gently.  Chuck looks up.  The strips of fish
are glowing.  So is the deck where he killed the fish.

He reaches out to touch the fish strips.  His hand is glowing
too.

                     CHUCK
          I'm an angel.

Suddenly he sees other lights.  A ship.  A ship is out there.
And he hears it, a humming in deep register.

He waves his hands.  He yells.

                     CHUCK
          Here!  Here!

His voice cracks, we can barely hear it over the ocean.

The lights move on.

                     CHUCK
          No...no...no...

His raft is rocked by the wake, rocked hard.  Chuck is thrown
into the water!

He comes to the surface, sputtering.  Where is the raft?

He looks one way, then another.  Darkness.

This is the worst.

He turns again in the water.  There, dimly, he can see the
glow from the fish he killed.  The glow saves his life.

He swims toward it.

He pulls himself back on the raft.

He lies there exhausted, the glow from the phosphorescence
casting a greenish light on his face.

EXT.  OCEAN - DAY

Clouds are building up.  In the distance lightning flashes.
The clouds come closer.

Little bits of electricity jump off the mast.  Saint Elmos
fire jumps around Chuck's hand.

Fascinated, he holds out his hand.  The fire jumps from his
hand to the mast.

Suddenly lightning shoots from the sky and strikes the ocean!
A huge spout of water explodes like a depth charge.  The
CRACK is intense, then rolls away.

Chuck stares, then realizes the danger and throws himself
down on the raft.  Suddenly a wall of rain sweeps over him
and the ocean begins to roll.  The thunder is deafening.
Lightning flashes bursts through the rain.

                     CHUCK
          Sea anchor!  Let out the sea anchor!

Frantic, Chuck lets out the sea anchor as the raft scuds down
a huge wave.  The anchor catches, slowing the raft so that it
rides the wave down.

The waves come at him high as houses.  The raft rides up one
side, then plunges down the next.

All Chuck can do is hold on.

EXT.  OCEAN - DAY

The storm has passed.  The raft floats on big dark rollers.

We hear the chirping and squeaking of dolphins.  They come
close to the raft.  Chuck watches them play.  Then realizes
they are chasing his fish.  They drive them along, into the
path of another dolphin, who darts in and rips into the
dorado, turning the water around the raft into churning,
bloody foam.

                     CHUCK
          Stop!

He takes his oar and begins beating the water.  The killing
continues.

                     CHUCK
          You fucking murderers!

Suddenly the water is still.  One dolphin sticks its head out
of the water and stares at Chuck, squeaking.

Another dolphin lifts its head up, then another.  They squeak
to each other, clearly communicating and talking about Chuck.

                     CHUCK
          I know you're talking about me!

He splashes the water with his oar.

They dive, then jump into the air, squeaking as they go.

                     CHUCK
               (very softly)
          Take me with you.

They're gone.

                     CHUCK
          Why me?  Why me, God?

He begins to laugh.

                     BADCHUCK
          Listen to this, Wilson.
               (deep voice: God)
          Because you piss me off.

EXT.  OCEAN - DAY

Chuck tries to stretch with some simple yoga.  Each movement
takes forever.

He rolls over onto his stomach and tries to do a pushup.  He
can't.  Collapses onto the raft.

                     BADCHUCK
          You're falling apart.

Tries to do another pushup.  Can't.

                     BADCHUCK
          First you eat your fat, then you eat your
          muscle.

He rolls over.

                     BADCHUCK
          Then you eat your mind.

He looks at the ocean.  They're in a line of garbage, a thick
slick of debris dumped off of ships.

                     GOODCHUCK
          Roll on you deep and dark blue ocean
          roll.

He closes his eyes.  After a minute they come open.

                     GOODCHUCK
          I'm late, I'm late, for a very important
          date.

They slowly close again.

                     BADCHUCK
          I'm lost.  Goodbye.

                     GOODCHUCK
          No!

His eyes come open again.

                     BADCHUCK
          Look, just slip off the raft.  The ocean
          would feel so good, the water's so soft
          and warm.  Take a little swim.  Sleep.

                     GOODCHUCK
          You quitter you quitter you quitter.

                     BADCHUCK
          The sea is lovely, dark and deep.

                     GOODCHUCK
          But I have promises to keep.
               (rolls over)
          And miles to go before I sleep.
               (props himself up)
          And miles to go before I sleep.
               (purpose now)
          Got to fix the sea anchor.  Use the sail.

                     BADCHUCK
          Use the sail for a sea anchor and you
          won't move.

                     GOODCHUCK
          If I don't have a sea anchor I'll
          capsize.

                     BADCHUCK
          Die tomorrow or die today.

He hums Beethoven's fifth.  BA BA BA BUM.

                     BADCHUCK
          That's death knocking, knocking on your
          door.  Crazy little woman come knocking,
          knocking at my front door...

                     GOODCHUCK
          Grow up, stop being such a baby.  Other
          people get through a lot worse.

                     BADCHUCK
          Yeah, sure, what?

He hums to himself, begins to sing, Beatles.

                     BADCHUCK
          I'm so tired, my mind is on the blink...

He pulls in the loose sea anchor rope, which is covered with
barnacles.

He scrapes the barnacle off the rope into the water jug, then
sips it.

The sun is setting, huge rays shoot out across the sky.

Out of the empty ocean the Dorados suddenly appear, leaping
flashes of silver right by the raft.

One Dorado swims right by the raft, broadside.

Chuck looks at it, uncomprehending.  Then slowly reaches for
his spear.

                     GOODCHUCK
          What?  Are you sacrificing yourself for
          me?

Carefully he comes to his feet, then shoots the spear into
the fish.

Flapping and struggling, it lands on the deck.  Chuck pounces
on it.

EXT.  RAFT - NIGHT - MOMENTS LATER

He cuts it open.  The other Dorados ram the raft in fury,
like a lynch mob.

                     GOODCHUCK
          Damn it!  I had to do it!

The banging continues.

                     GOODCHUCK
          I'm sorry!

He concentrates on his work, then sits back on his heels in
amazement.  There's another fish inside.  He holds that fish
up, stares at it, then cuts it open.

There's a smaller fish inside it.

                     GOODCHUCK
          I know there's a moral here, God, but
          right now I'm just going to eat.

He pops out an eyeball, then another, and crunches them
between his teeth.

He takes the heart and liver, starts to eat, then stops.

                     GOODCHUCK
          Forgot to say grace.  Sorry Mom.

He struggles to remember.

                     GOODCHUCK
          Bless us O Lord, and these thy gifts and
          Christ and the bounty about to receive,
          or something...amen.

He eats them.

EXT.  RAFT - NEXT MORNING

Chuck splashes sea water on his face.  Adjusts the water
still.

                     GOODCHUCK
          Please don't leak.  Please.

Chuck picks up the smallest fish.  It's half digested.  He
washes it in the ocean, trigger fish come up and nibble at
his fingers.

                     GOODCHUCK
          Don't look at me.  It was that Dorado.

He cuts the small fish and hangs it on the stays.

                     GOODCHUCK
          You know, Wilson, every now and then we
          should say thank you.  Thank you God.

                     BADCHUCK
          Thank you for fucking up my life.

Suddenly something bumps the raft.  Hard.  Then again.

                     GOODCHUCK
          Not again.

Fins cut the water.  SHARKS.  A big hammerhead bumps the
raft.  BadChuck hums the theme from "Jaws."  Chuck takes his
spear stabs at the shark.

                     BADCHUCK
          He's going to get you, going to get
          you...

Another one circles in, bumps the raft.

                     GOODCHUCK
          Get away from me!

The shark circles again, that big hammerhead like a
nightmare.

                     GOODCHUCK
          Get him get him get him.

He stabs at it with his spear.  He might as well have stabbed
concrete.  The shark circle, Chuck stabs again.

But the shark is gone.

                     GOODCHUCK
          Where are you?  Where are you?

Stabs again and again at the empty ocean.

                     GOODCHUCK
          Stop!  You're using energy.  Move slowly.
          Be patient.

Chuck kneels, wavering, on the raft.  The ocean is calm.

Suddenly, BUMP.  The raft tilts.

Chuck hangs on.

Then a shark appears, just out of spear range.  Its lifeless
black eyes seem to stare right through Chuck.

If the Dorado was a gift from God, this is a message from
Hell.

Then the shark is gone.

EXT.  RAFT - DAY - MOMENTS LATER

Chuck lies back on the raft.  He is humming.

                     BADCHUCK
          What are you smiling about?  They'll be
          back.

                     GOODCHUCK
          I'm dancing on the roof of the Peabody
          Hotel.  With Kelly.

He smiles at the thought.

                     GOODCHUCK
          The music ends.  We go back to the table.
          The waiters have brought dinner.  New
          York Strip with Bordelaise Sauce.
          Mushrooms in brown gravy.  Roasted
          potatoes with garlic and rosemary.  Green
          Beans with almonds.  Fresh biscuits and
          cornbread, dripping with butter.  A nice
          salad with ranch dressing.  A jumbo
          shrimp cocktail.

Thinks about that, it spoils the picture.

                     GOODCHUCK
          No shrimp.
               (then)
          We eat.

He closes his eyes.  This is the greatest fantasy.

                     GOODCHUCK
               (as the waiter)
          For dessert, we have pecan pie a la mode,
          we have a double chocolate cake with
          creme anglaise, we have a nice pear
          torte, fresh key lime pie, or perhaps if
          you care to wait a few minutes, a grand
          marnier souffle?

Chuck thinks over the options, thinking of each one.

                     GOODCHUCK
          Why, bring them all, bring them all.

He rolls over.  There, square in his vision, is a ship, its
form coming in and out of a low haze.

Chuck jumps to his feet.  Waves.  Screams.

                     GOODCHUCK
          Here!  Over here!

The ship moves on.  We can see the decks the rigging, the
vastness of it.

Chuck realizes he is naked.  Struggles to pull on the remains
of his pants finally holds them like a diaper with one hand
as he continues to wave.

On the ship no one is to be seen.  It is a spooky sight.

The big tanker moves on.

We are on Chuck's face.  Passed up again.

Then he realizes what is about to happen.  He throws out the
sea anchor.

He throws himself onto the raft and grips it as tight as he
can, wiggles his feet into the ropes.

                     CHUCK
          Oh, shiiiittt!

Then comes the wake of the ship.  It rocks the raft like a
piece of flotsam.  The raft rides high up on the wave, then
shoots down it, but the sea anchor holds, and the raft slows
and rides along with the wave.

And then the sea is calm again.

Slowly Chuck sinks to his knees.  His hand lets loose his
pants.

He lies down on the raft and imagines the conversation with
the ship's captain.

                     CHUCK
          Permission to come aboard, sir.

                     CHUCK/CAPTAIN
          Permission granted.

                     CHUCK
          May I ask, where are you bound?

                     CHUCK/CAPTAIN
          San Francisco.  And you?

                     CHUCK
          As it happens, I'm headed for Frisco
          myself.

                     CHUCK/CAPTAIN
          Would you do us the honor of joining us?
          We're just sitting down at mess.  Pork
          chops and gravy, cranberries, baked
          potatoes with all the trimmings, fresh-
          baked bread, apple pie...

                     CHUCK
          No please, join me.  Some sundried fish
          strips, a few eyeballs, some gills to
          munch on.

The depression comes back again.

                     BADCHUCK
          They're never going to see you.  You're
          just another piece of trash in the ocean.

                     GOODCHUCK
          They're on autopilot.

                     BADCHUCK
          They're always on autopilot.  Or else
          it's night, or you're in the sun, or
          you're in the trough of a wave.  They'll
          never see you.

                     GOODCHUCK
          Damn it!  Don't be so negative!

Chuck picks up Wilson.

                     GOODCHUCK
          Wilson, what's your story?

He holds Wilson close to his chest.

                     BADCHUCK
          I float.  You sink.  End of story.

                     GOODCHUCK
          I'm serious.  I'm always going on about
          me, me, me.  Enough about me.  Your turn.

                     BADCHUCK
          It's a fucking soccer ball, you idiot.

                     GOODCHUCK
          Shut up.

He lies on the raft and holds Wilson close.

We move up until we see --

EXT.  OCEAN - AERIAL - EVENING

Chuck lying curled up on the raft, Wilson cradled in his
arms, and all around the vast empty ocean.

EXT.  OCEAN - NEXT MORNING

Chuck slowly wakes up.  Sets Wilson aside.

                     GOODCHUCK
          Don't shirk, don't procrastinate, don't
          be lazy.  We're okay today.  We're okay
          today.

And the other Chuck begins to laugh.

                     GOODCHUCK
          Shut up.

The laughter goes on.

                     GOODCHUCK
          Shut the fuck up!  I mean it.

He stands up and checks the horizon.

                     GOODCHUCK
          What's so damn funny?

                     BADCHUCK
          You are.

Suddenly Chuck sees something on the horizon.  A bank of
clouds.  A cone of -- land.

He squints, stares again.  The clouds part.  It looks like --
his island.

Chuck doesn't know whether to feel joy or despair.

                     GOODCHUCK
          Jesus.

                     BADCHUCK
          Look again, asshole.  It's a mirage.

Chuck squints.

                     GOODCHUCK
          It's real.

                     BADCHUCK
          Nothing out there but ocean.

                     GOODCHUCK
          Let's get a second opinion.  Wilson?
          What do you see?

Chuck picks up the soccer ball, holds it up, and stares out
at...ocean.

EXT.  RAFT - DAY - LATER

Chuck slowly writes on the sail.

                     CHUCK
          Chuck Noland.  Born October 8, 1958.
          Died -- pick a date -- July 11, 1998.
          And now the epitaph.  Met deadlines.
          Kept appointments.  Lost without a trace.

He sits back, looks at the mock headstone.

                     BADCHUCK
          What did it matter if FedEx was five
          minutes late one day?  The next day we
          just start over again.

                     GOODCHUCK
          It matters.  We do the best we can,
          that's all we have.

                     BADCHUCK
          Then we've just got shit.

He goes on writing.

                     CHUCK
          I am writing this to remind myself to
          live a better life.  If I am lost,
          perhaps you who find this will be
          instructed to live a better live
          yourself.  Live each day.  Love your
          children.  Don't take anyone for granted.

                     BADCHUCK
          Is that it?  Life is a fucking Disney
          movie?

The waves begin to grow, the ocean turns a slate gray.  Far
above him, great frigate birds circle.  Suddenly one dives on
a booby which has caught a fish.  The great frigate bird
swoops all around the booby until, panicked, it drops the
fish, which plummets toward the sea.

With a graceful dive, the huge bird grabs the fish and then
soars up on a thermal, high into the sky.

Lightning flashes back and forth across the horizon, which is
turning black and dark.  Thunder rolls.

EXT.  RAFT - NIGHT

The raft goes up and down huge waves.  Every few seconds
lightning flashes, illuminating the raft and Chuck holding
desperately to it, his eyes wild with fear.

EXT.  RAFT - MORNING

The waves continue.  Chuck holds on, his face pale.

                     BADCHUCK
          You can't make it.

                     GOODCHUCK
          Shut up.  I don't feel like dying today.

EXT.  OCEAN - DAY - LATER

The sky clears.  The waves are still big.  The fish are back.
And then come the sharks, cutting through the water.  Chuck
can't get up to get his spear, he just has to watch as blood
darkens the water.

And then the sharks are gone.

Chuck comes to his knees slowly, then a big wave hits.
Wilson is swept into the ocean!

For a moment Chuck is uncomprehending.  He watches as Wilson
slowly floats away.

                     CHUCK
          Please, no sharks.

Then he dives in to the water!  Swims frantically after
Wilson.

Wilson floats away from him.  He swims, but he's so weak.
Finally he gets to Wilson.  He reaches out, but only pushes
the ball farther away.

It bobs on the waves.  Chuck treads water, exhausted.

Where is the raft?

                     CHUCK
          Jesus.  Jesus.  Jesus.

Then he turns back the other way.  The raft has drifted by
him.  He can go after Wilson, or he can go after the raft.

                     CHUCK
          Shit!  Wilson!

He swims toward the raft, barely moving.  No matter how hard
he swims, the raft seems to recede from him.

Finally he reaches it, hangs on the side, breathing hard,
choking, crying.

He struggles to pull himself on board.

But he is weak, so weak.  He can't do it.

Summoning some primitive reserve of strength, he tries again.
This time he slides on.

He lies on the raft, panting.

Then with all his strength he pulls himself to his feet,
holds on to the mast, scans the ocean for Wilson.

                     CHUCK
          Wilson!

Nothing but waves.

This is too much.  Chuck starts to cry.

EXT.  RAFT - DAY - LATER

Chuck takes a swallow of water, washes it around in his
mouth, then swallows.  With his wet tongue he licks his
cracked lips.

The sun breaks through the clouds.

With what strength he has left, Chuck raises the canopy,
fastens it.

He sits in the meager shade, his head between his knees.

Closes his eyes.  Just for a minute.

EXT.  OCEAN - DAY - LATER

A different sort of shadow crosses Chuck's face.  He opens
his eyes.

There, riding right beside his raft, is a ship, a huge rusty
tanker.  Someone shouts down in a language we don't
understand.

Chuck sits up, can't believe it.  Struggles to cover himself.

EXT.  OCEAN - DAY - LATER

Chuck is lifted up the rusted steel side of the boat in a
Jacob's ladder.

EXT.  SHIP - DAY - LATER

Chuck steps on board, can't support himself.

The crew gathers around.  None of them speak English, but
there is a spontaneous outburst of human connection.

One man brings some water.  Another a blanket.  Another some
warm tea.

Chuck sits there, shivering now.

                     CHUCK
          Thank you.  Oh thank you.

Deliriously happy.  Delirious.

INT.  U.S. NAVAL HOSPITAL - HAWAII

A cavernous hanger-sized ward brightly lit and filled with
row upon row of hospital beds, each with its table, side
chair, and lamp, each with a stainless steel bedpan and
neatly folded sheets and blankets stacked ready to use, and
each completely empty.

Except for one.

And on that bed we see Chuck, in a blue hospital gown.  An IV
drips into his arm.  He plays idly with the remote control of
the bed.  He raises the head, then the foot.  He pushes
another button and the knee rest bends the bed again.

A DOCTOR enters, carrying a thick chart.  Chuck gives him a
big manic grin.  Malcolm MacDowell in "A Clockwork Orange."

                     CHUCK
          My favorite doctor.  What's the verdict?

                     DOCTOR
          Under the circumstances your overall
          health is good.  Those salt water boils
          you picked up on the raft are ulcerated,
          but they're healing nicely.

He checks his blood work records.

                     DOCTOR
          Hemoglobin's 10.8 -- you're anemic,
          that's why we're giving you iron.
          Potassium's low -- we're giving you an
          electrolyte solution with your IV.
          Sodium's over 150, way too high.  You may
          experience swelling in your extremities
          as you rehydrate and discharge the salt.
          In spite of your dietary deficiencies
          there's no sign of mental deterioration.

Chuck has been trying not to laugh.  Now he can't stop
himself.

                     DOCTOR
          What's so funny.

Chuck can't seem to help laughing at everything.

                     CHUCK
          Sorry...sorry... Why do my joints still
          ache?

                     DOCTOR
          Dehydration.  Vitamin deficiency.
          Protein deficiency.  Any or all of the
          above.

                     CHUCK
          All I ate was fish.  That's solid
          protein.

                     DOCTOR
          Protein digestion is very costly in water
          usage.

                     CHUCK
          Which I didn't have.

                     DOCTOR
          And fish are very low in fat, which is
          energy inefficient.  So you're going to
          burn up your own cells no matter how much
          you eat.  Luckily you ate the eyes and
          pancreas, which contain some Vitamin C,
          so you didn't get scurvy.

Chuck laughs again.

                     CHUCK
          I am one lucky guy.

                     DOCTOR
          Your body chemistry and your exposure to
          the elements would normally lead to
          irritability, depression, anxiety,
          periods of self-reproach.  It's almost
          like schizophrenia.  Different sides of
          your personality might come to life,
          speak out, act out.

                     CHUCK
          But all that's behind me.  I'm fine now.

He starts to laugh again.

                     DOCTOR
          If you say you are.

                     CHUCK
          I most definitely say I am.

                     DOCTOR
          Doctor Hegel tells me he discussed the
          Vietnam POW syndrome with you.

Chuck stifles his laughter.

                     CHUCK
          Yes, yes he did.

                     DOCTOR
          You are aware of the potential
          disruptiveness on your loved ones when
          you return to your old life?

                     CHUCK
          Not to mention on me.

The laughter again.  Unsettling.

                     DOCTOR
          You sure you don't want some counseling?

Chuck gives his biggest smile.

                     CHUCK
          Doc, I'm not on the island.  I'm not on
          the raft.  I'm alive.  I'm so glad to be
          back, I can't tell you.  I just want out
          of here.

                     DOCTOR
          Well, when that IV runs out, you're
          through with us.  Just the dentist
          tomorrow.

INT.  HOSPITAL - NIGHT - LATER

Rolling his IV, Chuck walks very slowly out of the ward.
Every step is an effort.

INT.  PHONE CUBICLE - NIGHT - MINUTES LATER

A small windowless room with only a desk and a phone, lit by
a fluorescent lamp.  Chuck is listening to the phone ring.

Kelly answers.

                     KELLY (V.O.)
          Hello.

Chuck is overcome for a moment, can't say a word.

                     KELLY (V.O.)
          Hello?  Hello?

For some reason he can't keep himself from laughing.  He
covers the mouthpiece and laughs.

And then we hear a dial tone, harsh, mechanical, final.

EXT.  PHONE CUBICLE - MINUTES LATER

We can see Chuck inside, staring at the phone.

INT.  PHONE CUBICLE - MINUTES LATER

We hear a faint persistent hum.  Chuck looks around, trying
to locate the sound.  He looks up, focuses on the fluorescent
light, that background sound he can no longer tune out, then
picks up the phone again.

EXT.  PHONE CUBICLE

Stan answers the phone.

                     STAN (V.O.)
          Hello?

                     CHUCK
          Stan, it's Chuck...Chuck Noland...

The laughter again.

                     STAN (V.O.)
          Whoever you are, you are one sick fucker.

And again we hear the dial tone.

INT.  PHONE CUBICLE - MOMENTS LATER

Chuck's on the phone again.

                     CHUCK
          Two Valium and the Rolling Stones.  That
          ring a bell?

There's a long silence.  Then we hear Stan's voice.

                     STAN (V.O.)
          God damn!  God damn!  Chuck, it's you!

                     CHUCK
          It's me.

                     STAN (V.O.)
          You're fucking dead!

                     CHUCK
          I'm most definitely not dead.  And as I
          recall, you're the sick fucker.

Chuck begins to laugh, a little too loud, a little too
shrill.  He's on a high.

EXT.  HAWAII - BEACH RESTAURANT

A terrace by the ocean.  Tables filled with diners.  Food
being delivered by waiters.  So simple, eating.  So taken for
granted.

At one table sits Chuck, dressed in a Hawaiian shirt and
shorts, with a half-dozen plates in front of him.  He
gestures to the waiter.  Bring me more.  It all tastes so
damned good.

Behind him is the ocean.  Chuck doesn't glance at it.

INT.  DENTIST - NEXT DAY

An attractive DENTAL TECHNICIAN with an Australian accent
cleans Chuck's teeth with an ultrasound device.  She's close,
very close.  Chuck looks up at her.  She looks really good.
She smiles at him, then touches the gap where he knocked out
his tooth.

                     TECHNICIAN
          You sure you don't want to have the
          implant done here?  We do quite good
          work.

Chuck shakes his head:  no.  She scrapes behind his front
teeth.

                     TECHNICIAN
          Hmmm, you do have such a lot of tarter
          behind these front incisors.  A little
          wider, please.

Chuck opens his mouth even further.  The technician talks on
in the self-absorbed way dental technicians sometimes do,
that constant babble of human contact which Chuck has not
heard for four years.

                     TECHNICIAN
          Anyway, so the second prosthetic foot
          worked better, but he still couldn't
          drive his new Cortina, it being a
          standard shift, if you follow me.

Chuck nods.  I follow you.

                     TECHNICIAN
          But would he hear of me driving him
          around?  Not on your bloody life.  Rinse
          please.

Chuck does.  Stan bursts into the room.

                     STAN
          Chuck!  God damn!

Chuck struggles out of the chair.

                     STAN
          God damn.  God damn.  God damn.

They are both almost overcome.  Stan holds Chuck by the
shoulders and looks at him.

                     STAN
          You're alive, you're fucking alive!

Chuck laughs, thrilled to see Stan.

                     CHUCK
          I beat the odds!

                     STAN
          You beat 'em to shit, pal!  Jesus!

                     TECHNICIAN
          I still need to floss you.

Stan notices the technician.

                     STAN
          Hello.

                     CHUCK
          This is Amber.  Her boyfriend lost his
          foot in a shark attack.

He says this with an absolute straight face, holding back the
laughter with great effort.  Instantly there's this
connection again between him and Stan.

                     TECHNICIAN
          Ex-boyfriend.

                     STAN
          Really.

And he and Chuck make eye contact and we see a glimpse of
their shared unspoken irony.

                     STAN
          Uh, there's somebody out here who wants
          to see you.

Chuck stares sharply at him.  Kelly?  Stan nods, but there's
something he wants to say.

                     STAN
          She thought you were dead.  We all did.

That's not all Stan wants to say.  But Chuck is limping out
the door.

INT.  DENTIST - WAITING ROOM

Typical dentist waiting room.  Chairs, tropical fish tanks,
magazines, a few waiting patients...and Kelly, looking
nervous.

Slowly and painfully Chuck enters.  He's quite a sight.  She
stands up.  There's a long moment where they look at each
other.

Then she comes into his arms.  Holds him tight.  She's part
laughing, part crying.

                     KELLY
          I'm sorry... I'm sorry...

                     CHUCK
          Hey...hey...it's okay!

Chuck is happy, he's still riding the high.

                     KELLY
          You're so thin.  Am I hurting you?

Well, maybe a little, but who cares?  He hasn't been hugged
or barely touched in so long.

                     CHUCK
          No...no...feels good...

She disengages, looks at him with that old smile.

                     KELLY
          Right back, you said you'd be right back.

                     CHUCK
          A few things came up.  Or went down.

He meets her gaze, looks her over with a smile.

                     CHUCK
          You look...wonderful.  I like your hair.

He notices the ring on her hand.

                     KELLY
          I got married.

                     CHUCK
          I thought you might have.

                     KELLY
          I would never --

                     CHUCK
          I know.

                     KELLY
          If I'd known you were alive --

                     CHUCK
          I would have done the same thing.

His responses come so quick.  Chuck seems blissfully sure of
himself.

                     KELLY
          I didn't want to.  It just happened.  One
          day Gary was there.  He took care of
          everything.  He took care of me.  I was a
          mess.

                     CHUCK
          You have any children?

Kelly nods.

                     CHUCK
          Got a picture?

Kelly fishes for a photo, shows it to Chuck.  It's a little
girl with a dog.

                     KELLY
          Her name's Hannah.

                     CHUCK
          Is that Jango?

                     KELLY
          No, this is Jack.  Jango was hit by a UPS
          truck.  Can you believe it?

Chuck laughs.  It is funny, sort of.

                     CHUCK
          Life's just one big joke after another.

Stan appears, takes in the scene.  The few patients waiting
are edged into the corners, trying to look occupied with
something else.

                     STAN
          How about we go somewhere else?

                     CHUCK
          Want to see my raft?

EXT.  HAWAII - DAY

Chuck's raft sits up on a dock.  Kelly stands staring at it.
How small and fragile it looks.

                     STAN
          This stinks really bad.

                     CHUCK
          You should have smelled me.

Stan examines the ropes around the logs.

                     STAN
          Cool ropes.

                     CHUCK
          I braided them.

                     STAN
          Must have taken a hell of a long time.

                     CHUCK
          Time I had lots of.

Kelly points at something on the raft.

                     KELLY
          What's that?

                     CHUCK
          That's my sea anchor.  My second one.
          Made it out of part of the sail.  It
          keeps you from capsizing in a storm.  In
          theory.
               (picks up his still)
          And this, this I used to collect water.
          About half a cup a day.

He's not feeling sorry for himself.  It's just a fact.

                     STAN
          You were how long on this?

                     CHUCK
          Forty-three days.

They look at the tiny raft.  It speaks for itself.

                     KELLY
          All that time I waited to go on a cruise,
          and you went without me.

                     CHUCK
          Yeah, well...couldn't be helped.

Kelly notices the sail, sees the writing on it.

                     KELLY
          What's that, written on the sail?

                     CHUCK
          My epitaph.

Kelly reads it to herself.  Her eyes are moist.

                     CHUCK
          Bad body chemistry.  Made me a little
          morbid.  But I'm all over that now.

And he seems really to believe it.

                     STAN
          I'll be at the car.
               (to Kelly)
          Take you to the airport.

And he leaves.

                     KELLY
          I buried you, Chuck.  They had to pry my
          fingers off your coffin.

This interests Chuck to no end.

                     CHUCK
          There was a coffin?

                     KELLY
          Yeah, coffin, headstone, the whole thing.

                     CHUCK
          What was inside?

                     KELLY
          Your calendar, your cell phone, your whoo
          pig sooey hat, some pictures of that
          ketch you wanted.

                     CHUCK
          That about sums it up.

                     KELLY
          Maybe now's when you tell me about it.

                     CHUCK
          The plane went down.  My friends died.  I
          washed up on an island.  Then I found
          these barrels, built the raft, and here I
          am.

                     KELLY
          Yeah?

                     CHUCK
          The tide came in, the tide went out.  I
          survived.  That's the headline.  I
          survived.

                     KELLY
          Don't overwhelm me with the details.
               (she smiles remembering)
          You know how I hate that.

He tries to put it into words, isn't quite sure how.

                     KELLY
               (gently)
          Come on.  Try.

                     CHUCK
          Cliches, mainly.  Don't take anyone for
          granted.  Don't sweat the small stuff.
          Live each day like it's your last.

                     KELLY
          So simple to say, so hard to do.

                     CHUCK
          Not when you have no choice.

Kelly looks down at the raft.  It's so small.

                     KELLY
          You hated being alone.  Couldn't stand
          it.  Busy every minute.  Always plugged
          into something.

                     CHUCK
          I didn't know what really being alone
          was.  No one back here does.

He has something more to say.  She waits.

                     CHUCK
          We're not meant to be alone.  Not like
          that.  Share life, that's what came to me
          out there.  Be with someone.

And that's the point, isn't it?  We are social animals.  No
man is an island.

                     KELLY
          This is so unfair.

                     CHUCK
          That's what I told the fish I caught.
          But I ate them anyway.

And the laughter comes again.  Kelly grins, embarrassed, a
little worried.

                     KELLY
          You okay?

                     CHUCK
          Great.  Really.

She stares at his face, reaches out, touches it again, this
time with great tenderness.

He nods, her touch feels so good.

A wave of emotion comes over her:  pity?  love?

                     KELLY
          What will you do?

                     CHUCK
          I don't know.  I really don't know.

We hear a distant beep-beep, discrete as a car horn can be.

                     KELLY
          I've got to get back to Memphis.
          Hannah's babysitter has finals.

                     CHUCK
          It means a lot...that you came.

                     KELLY
          I had to come.  To be sure you were okay.

They hold each other.  For a long time.

                     KELLY
          I love you, Chuck.

                     CHUCK
          You too.

                     KELLY
          I'm so glad you're alive.

Chuck grins.

                     CHUCK
          You too.

Then she heads for the waiting car.  Chuck stands by his
raft, watching her go.

INT.  FEDEX PLANE - NIGHT

Chuck and Stan ride on the plane.  Chuck is coming down off
his survival high.  He has the Angel Wing FedEx package with
him.

                     STAN
          When I first showed up, I thought you'd
          lost your fucking marbles.

                     CHUCK
          I never thought it would end.  Then it
          did.  It was so great to be saved, I
          couldn't stop laughing.

Stan pulls a flask out of his bag.

                     STAN
          You need a drink.

Stan takes two glasses from his bag, rests them on a FedEx
container, and pours the whiskey.

                     CHUCK
          For years my only drinking buddy was a
          soccer ball.  Wilson.

Stan hoists his glass.

                     STAN
          To Wilson.

                     CHUCK
          To Wilson.

Now's when Stan gets to the question he's been wanting to
ask, that Kelly wanted to know, that we all want to know.

                     STAN
          So, what's it all about?

Chuck stares at him.

                     STAN
          You've been over the line and you came
          back.  You've been saved, hallelujah!

                     CHUCK
          Hallelujah.

Stan looks over at him.

                     STAN
          I'm serious.  The burning bush, the big
          picture, the words in neon...

                     CHUCK
          What's it all about?  It's about being so
          thirsty you'd crush a fish's backbone to
          suck out the spinal fluid -- that's what
          it's about.

Stan sits back, repulsed but relieved.

                     STAN
          Do what it takes.  That's what I always
          told you.

He pours another drink.

                     STAN
          To life.  Fuck 'em if they can't take a
          joke.

                     CHUCK
          To life.

                     STAN
          That's all there is.

                     CHUCK
          Believe me I know.

He takes a sip of his drink, just savoring it, thinking.

                     CHUCK
          But it's not being bold or being in the
          game or rolling the dice.

All those things Stan used to tell him.

                     CHUCK
          When I was going crazy, on the raft, I'd
          argue with myself about everything.
          Because everything had a price.  To get
          anything -- a sip of water, a little
          corner of shade, an hour's sleep -- I had
          to let go of something else.  And then I
          could never get it back.

He thinks some more.

                     CHUCK
          You don't win or lose.  You win and lose.

He looks out the window.

                     CHUCK
          You win and lose.

And Chuck has.  Big time.

EXT.  MEMPHIS AIRPORT - NIGHT

A FedEx MD-11 lands.

EXT.  MEMPHIS SUPERHUB - MOMENTS LATER

The MD-11 taxis up.  As usual, the SuperHub is a frenzy of
activity.  A loading crew stands ready, forklifts poised.
Even this plane carries packages.

PHIL STEELE, the chairman of FedEx, Leslie, Becca, Dick, and
other executives wait on a special podium near the gangway.
Everyone looks different -- older, a mustache here, a
thickening around the belly there.

Behind a barrier a cluster of cameras film the scene.

The plane cuts its engine.  The stairs are rolled out.
Forklifts and gangways move forward.  Cargo doors open.
Chuck appears in the door.  He holds the FedEx Package and a
small travel bag.

Chuck blinks against the lights and the glare.  Stan is right
by him.  Everyone bursts into APPLAUSE AND CHEERING.

After four years of total solitude this is completely
overwhelming.

                     STAN
          Smile.

Chuck smiles.

                     STAN
          Wave.

And Chuck waves.  He's overwhelmed by all the input.  Stan
steers Chuck down the steps as the cheers continue.

At the bottom of the steps Roger steps forward.  The two
brothers embrace each other.  After a moment Roger
disengages.  Mary gives Chuck a hug.

                     MARY
          Oh Chuck --

                     CHUCK
          Where's Mom?

                     ROGER
          Waiting for you.  At the farm.  This was
          too much --

He looks around at the crowds.

                     CHUCK
          Tell me about it.

Stan nudges Chuck.  Time to go to the podium.

                     ROGER
          Glad you made it, big brother.

Stan and Chuck head for the podium.  All the loaders and
operators and package scanners begin to applaud.  Chuck
smiles, then laughs, getting into the emotion.  He keeps up
an almost indecipherable babble underneath the cheering.
Occasionally he sees someone he knows.

                     CHUCK
          Wow.  Thank you.  Great.  Thank you.
          Hey, Rasheed, how you doing?  Thank you
          all.

EXT.  SUPERHUB - WIDE

Chuck makes his triumphant way through this amazing
collection of cheering people like Moses parting the Red Sea.

EXT.  SUPERHUB - PLATFORM

With a big smile Phil Steele holds out his hand to Chuck.

                     STEELE
          Welcome home.

He steps to the microphone and addresses the SuperHub.

                     STEELE
          This is an extraordinary moment.  And it
          should be marked in an extraordinary way.
          With something we have never done since
          this company was founded.
               (pause)
          Stop the line!

EXT.  SUPERHUB - SERIES OF SHOTS

All over the SuperHub, belts come to a halt.  Forklifts stop.
Tracking stations shut down.  The vast flow of packages is
suddenly still.  The incredible din of activity is suddenly
quiet.  The stillness and the silence are unexpected and
palpable.  Thousands of workers stop as well, staring either
up at Chuck directly or at his image on video screens.  We
hear Phil's voice piped in.

EXT.  SUPERHUB - PLATFORM

Phil holds a plaque.

                     STEELE
          Four years ago we placed this plaque in
          honor of Charles Noland, and two just
          like it in honor of Al Morris and John
          Durham, the two brave pilots who went
          down with him.

As he talks, we stay on Chuck, who is taking in this amazing
scene, not really listening.

                     STEELE
          Chuck endured years of hardship and
          loneliness.  Like Lazarus, Chuck has come
          back from the dead.  Chuck, this is your
          family, all of us.  So it gives me great
          pleasure...to take this plaque...and to
          present it to our long lost son.  Welcome
          home.

He hands the plaque to Chuck.  Chuck acknowledges the cheers
of the crowd.

                     CHUCK
          Thank you.  Thank you very much...

Everyone applauds.

                     CHUCK
          Give me a minute.  I've spent four years
          looking out at an empty ocean.

He laughs, a short brittle laugh, composes himself.

                     CHUCK
          It's all so -- big.  You never think
          you'll miss -- all this.  But I did.  I
          really, really did.  And I missed all of
          you.

He looks over at the hub.

                     CHUCK
          You've added some new belts, and what's
          that?

He points at some high tech equipment on the edge of the
shed.

                     STAN
          Digital laser readers.

                     CHUCK
          Digital laser readers.  Wow.  Terrific.

He looks around at everyone, doesn't know what else to say.

                     CHUCK
          I've never heard it this quiet.
          Shouldn't you all be getting back to
          work?

The tension is broken.  Everyone laughs.  Phil Steele motions
with his hand.  Let it be done.

ANOTHER ANGLE - WIDE

The vast, incredible machinery creaks to a start.  Everyone
shakes Chuck's hand as he leaves the podium.

As he heads for the car, REPORTERS shout questions.

INT.  CAR - MEMPHIS FREEWAY

We are assaulted by a surge of light, motion, activity.
Snaking lines of traffic in both directions, big overpasses,
the city rising beyond.

Stan drives with a certain aggressiveness.  Chuck looks out
at the traffic, at all the activity, at the vast intricate
anthill of humanity going everywhere and nowhere.

                     CHUCK
          Take your time.

                     STAN
          What?

                     CHUCK
          That's what it's about.

                     STAN
          Being patient.  Don't rush things.  I get
          it.

He swerves into another lane.

                     CHUCK
          Not just that.  Take your time.  Use it.
          Live it.

                     STAN
          Deep, real deep.

He grins, cuts across to the exit.

                     STAN
          So where to?  The office?  The hotel?
          The beach?

Chuck stares at him.  Are you kidding?

                     STAN
          What, then?

                     CHUCK
          Deliver this package.  Then, I dunno.

                     STAN
               (re: the package)
          You want that delivered, we'll deliver
          it.  That's what we do.

                     CHUCK
          I need to do it.

                     STAN
          Finish what you started.  You haven't
          changed, Chuck.  It's still you.

Right.

                     CHUCK
          You want to help, help me find the woman
          who sent this.

INT.  OPERATIONS CENTER - DAY

Stan and Chuck are in the office of a TECHNICIAN who is
working away at his computer.  The Technician pulls the bar
code from the Angel Wing FedEx box up on his computer screen.

                     TECHNICIAN
          Okay.  After three years the PTR reverts
          to tape storage, which is okay because we
          access it through the CPC.  Here it is.
               (gestures at computer map)
          Ten packages from the same sender.  Baku.
          Delhi.  St. Petersburg.  The guy was a
          real road warrior.  This package was
          Kuala Lampur.  No activity in his account
          after this package.  No forwarding
          addresses after K.L.

                     CHUCK
          What about the sender?

                     TECHNICIAN
          Sure.  Bettina Peterson.  Marfa, Texas.
          Let's run a current check.

He works some keys, waits.

                     TECHNICIAN
          Hmmm.  Durango, Colorado; Asheville,
          North Carolina, then...canceled her
          account.

                     CHUCK
          Can you find her?

                     TECHNICIAN
          You're looking at a Level III search.
          For your Level III, you gotta have E-4
          authorization.  I don't have it.

                     STAN
          I do.

He holds out a badge.

                     TECHNICIAN
          Okay, let's let it rip.

He starts to pull up the data.

                     CHUCK
          Thanks.  For everything.

                     STAN
          No sweat.

EXT.  CHUCK'S MOTEL - THAT NIGHT

Chuck leaves the motel, the Angel Box under his arm.  He ties
it into a pannier on the side of a bicycle.

EXT.  MEMPHIS - CHICKASAW GARDENS - NIGHT

Chuck sneaks up to a craftsman cottage and stands by a tree
with a swing on it.  Inside we see Kelly making dinner for
her husband, who plays with their daughter.  For a moment
Chuck watches through the window, and we watch with him.
Then the dog begins to bark.

EXT.  CEMETERY - NIGHT

Chuck walks through the cemetery late at night.  He comes to
his gravestone, stares for a long moment at the inscription,
then takes out a spray can of paint and puts a HANDPRINT on
it.

He gets back on his bicycle and rides away.

EXT.  HIGHWAY - DAY

Chuck rides his bicycle down a road leading into the South.

EXT.  FREEWAY - DAY

Chuck negotiates an overpass crossing an Interstate Highway.
Headed in both directions, cars whoosh by beneath him.

EXT.  HIGHWAY - DUSK - LATER

Chuck rides down a narrow road, shrouded in mist.  Moss drips
from the trees reaching over the road.  A car goes by.  Then
another, their lights like halos in the fog.  It's a mystical
scene, a passage.

EXT.  ARKANSAS - NIGHT

Chuck gets off his bicycle in the rain and walks toward a
roadside cafe.

INT.  CAFE - NIGHT

Chuck draws on a paper place mat as he waits for his meal at
a counter.  Above the counter the television plays.

                     ANNOUNCER
          And here's more from Dingo Dodd, our
          Australian correspondent, on the
          extraordinary story of Chuck Noland, the
          modern Robinson Crusoe.

The waitress sets a plate down in front of Chuck, turns to
watch.

On the TV we see an Australian correspondent standing on
Chuck's beach.

                     DINGO DODD
          Shark infested waters!  A deserted
          island!  Surrounded by reefs!  Accessible
          only by helicopter!  For four years Chuck
          Noland survived here alone, eating fish,
          coconuts and clams, his only companion a
          soccer ball.

Chuck is staring at the screen, seeing his cave, seeing all
those years.

                     DINGO DODD
          I'm now in Chuck's cave where he passed
          the lonely nights, painting on the walls
          like some prehistoric caveman.  What did
          Chuck feel?  These paintings tell the
          story, but only Chuck knows what they
          mean.  And he's not talking.

On the screen we see a photograph of Chuck.

The waitress looks over at Chuck.  The other clients look at
him too.

                     CHUCK
          Check, please.

The waitress comes over.

                     WAITRESS
          No charge, honey.  But could you just
          sign that place mat for me?

Chuck looks down at his doodling.  Hesitates.  Then signs his
name.

INT.  TYSON'S CHICKEN - ARKANSAS - DAY

Thousands of chicken carcasses hanging on hooks circle
through the huge processing plant, a vast structure on the
scale of the SuperHub or the Hospital.

Chuck's Mom, dressed in white with a hairnet, enters a
windowed office in the b.g.  Through the window we see her
hug Chuck.

INT.  TYSON'S CHICKEN - OFFICE - ARKANSAS - DAY

We are in the office now.  Chuck's Mom's eyes are moist.

                     CHUCK
          When'd you start working here?

                     MOM
          Roger got me on.  I wasn't doing
          anything, and -- but you're back, you're
          really back.  I would have come to
          Memphis, but --

                     CHUCK
          I wanted to come here.

INT.  FRAME HOUSE - ARKANSAS - DAY

Chuck eats a Southern fried drumstick.  The table is full of
home-cooked food.

                     MOM
          Have some more potato salad.

Chuck gestures, no, I'm full.  She puts down the spoon.

                     CHUCK
          That was great, Mom, just great.

He looks around the house, everything in its place.  His
mother has been here for forty years.  There's a big crack
running down from the ceiling.

                     CHUCK
          I've got all this back pay coming.  Why
          don't you let me get you a place in town?

                     MOM
          This is my home.  I'm part of the
          wallpaper.

She studies him for a moment.

                     MOM
          You miss it, don't you?  You miss that
          island.

He does, but that's not it entirely.

                     CHUCK
          Miss that island?  Mom, come on.

She looks at him.  She knows her boy.

                     MOM
          What a journey you've had.  It seems more
          than a person should have to bear.

                     CHUCK
          The tide saved me, Mom.  I lived by it.
          I'm just wondering where it will take me
          next.

She looks at him, thinks about this.

                     MOM
          Remember the family motto.  In time.  It
          will come to you, in time.

EXT.  ARKANSAS - DAY

Chuck rides away from the small neat frame house, down a
country lane with trailers up on blocks.

EXT.  GULF COAST - DAY

Chuck leaves a cheap motel as the sun comes up.

EXT.  MISSISSIPPI GULF COAST - DAY - LATER

Chuck rides on a ferry, the wind blowing his face.  The sky
is gray and drizzly.  He smells the salt water.  Watches the
waves.

EXT.  GAS STATION - DAY

Chuck asks for directions.  A kid in baggy pants and no shirt
points him down the road.

EXT.  GAS STATION - MOMENTS LATER

Chuck pulls some clothes out of his saddle bags.

EXT.  GAS STATION - MOMENTS LATER

Chuck emerges from the restroom wearing a FedEx shirt and
shorts.

EXT.  BEACH HOUSE - HOUR LATER

A classic beach house.  Sand dunes, stilts.  Carrying the
Angel Wing Box under his arm, Chuck checks the address in his
hand.  Mounts the steps.  A light mist falls.  You can see
the Gulf behind the house, gray and moody.

A WOMAN, BETTINA, answers the door -- THE woman from the
beginning.  She wears cut-off jeans and a blue work shirt
covered with paint.  There's a tattoo on her ankle.

                     CHUCK
          FedEx for Bettina Peterson.

The woman stares in disbelief at the package she hasn't seen
in years and never expected to see again.

                     BETTINA
          Where did you get that?

Chuck displays a FedEx badge.

                     CHUCK
          Charles Noland.  FedEx Special Projects.

Bettina notices Chuck's bicycle.

                     BETTINA
          You came on a bicycle?  No wonder it's so
          late.

                     CHUCK
          There was an unavoidable delay.

Bettina stares at the package, her own memories coming back.

                     BETTINA
          Well, I have to say, I'm impressed.  You
          never gave up.

                     CHUCK
          No.

She holds the box and studies him for a long moment.
Something -- the look on his face, the extraordinary
reappearance of this long-lost package -- makes her curious.

                     BETTINA
          You know what happened to this?

                     CHUCK
          As much as anybody.

                     BETTINA
          Want to come in?  Get dry for a minute.

                     CHUCK
          Okay.  Sure.

She lets Chuck in the door.

INT.  HOUSE - DAY

Ladders.  Scaffolds.  Huge paintings are everywhere.
Paintings of wings and angels -- like the package.  Chuck
stares at them.  Bettina watches Chuck stare.

                     BETTINA
          I've got some coffee on.  Would you like
          some?

INT.  KITCHEN - LATER

Bettina pours some coffee.  The package sits in the counter.
Some magazines are spread around, including a People Magazine
with Chuck's photograph on the cover.

                     CHUCK
               (takes a sip)
          It's good.

They smile awkwardly at each other.  She starts to open it.

                     BETTINA
          Hmmm.  Feels like it might have gotten
          wet.

                     CHUCK
          Possible.  So you did those wings?

                     BETTINA
          Yeah.  A long time ago.

                     CHUCK
          They're harder to do than they look.

                     BETTINA
          Oh?  You've tried?

                     CHUCK
          Well, I do a little drawing --

She's opened the package.  She pulls out the bottles of salsa
and the letter.

                     CHUCK
          Our apologies that it never made it to
          the recipient.

                     BETTINA
          He was a sorry sonofabitch, and I'm sorry
          I ever married him.

There is a moment where neither knows what to say.

                     BETTINA
          You look familiar.

Her eyes start to register recognition.  She glances at the
magazine with Chuck's picture on it.  She picks it up.

                     BETTINA
          I can't believe this.  I -- I -- They
          are... You're a gifted artist.  You're
          into something very powerful.  Primal.
          Truly.

                     CHUCK
          Well, not really, I --

                     BETTINA
          You are.  Yes you are.
               (so many things she wants to
                say)
          What gave you the idea to paint on that
          cave?

Chuck thinks about that.  After a moment, he grins.

                     CHUCK
          To tell you the truth -- you did.

                     BETTINA
          Do you...have any more packages to
          deliver?

                     CHUCK
          No.  that was the last one.

                     BETTINA
          Just sit here, I'll get us some lunch.

Chuck sits back on the couch, taking in the sight of the
ocean in the light rain.  He looks over at all the canvases,
the easel, the palettes.  The wind rustles the palm trees
around the house.  The surf crashes and rustles.  Familiar
sounds.  Island sounds.

He relaxes a little.  Maybe the package with the wings was a
sign, he kept it all these years precisely for this.  Then
there's a sound of a truck in the driveway.

The engine cuts off.  There are steps on the porch.  The door
opens.  A tanned muscular MAN in neatly kept work clothes
comes in, hangs a tool belt on a hook by the door.

He looks at Chuck with a relaxed, even stare, as if seeing a
man in a FedEx uniform sitting on his couch is not an unusual
occurrence.

                     MAN
          Hey.

                     CHUCK
          Hey.

                     BETTINA (O.S.)
          In here!

The Man nods at Chuck, goes into the kitchen.  We are on
Chuck's face.  Who's this?  We hear muffled laughter from
inside.

EXT.  BEACH HOUSE - HOUR LATER

Arms around each other, the Man and the Woman say goodbye to
Chuck.  In the front yard is a panel truck painted with two
angel wings.  The Man grins at Chuck, an easy, friendly grin.

                     MAN
          Come back anytime.  Coffee's always on.
          Don't even have to bring us a package.

                     CHUCK
          That was my last one.

Bettina hands Chuck a sheet of paper.

                     BETTINA
          The list of paints and brushes I did for
          you.

He takes it, not exactly sure he wants it.

                     BETTINA
          Keep painting.  Promise me.

                     CHUCK
          Sure.

EXT.  BEACH HOUSE - MOMENTS LATER

Chuck rides his bicycle away, along the shore.

EXT.  BEACH - MINUTES LATER

Chuck rides along the beach.  Up ahead we see a FedEx truck.

EXT.  BEACH - MOMENTS LATER

Chuck gets off his bike as a female FEDEX DRIVER puts chocks
under the wheels, which have stuck in the sand.

                     CHUCK
          Need some help?

                     DRIVER
          You bet I do.  High tide comes right up
          to this road.

EXT.  BEACH - MOMENTS LATER

Chuck pushes on the truck as the driver gives it gas.  The
truck slowly pulls back onto the pavement.

EXT.  BEACH - MOMENTS LATER

The Driver gets out of the truck with a grin.  She has an
open, friendly face.  There's an instant connection between
them.

                     DRIVER
          Hey, thanks.  I'd never have got that out
          by myself.

Looks at his uniform.  At the bike.

                     DRIVER
          You're not out of Pascagoula, are you?

                     CHUCK
          No.

Where is he from, anyway?

                     CHUCK
          I used to drive one of those.  A long
          time ago.

                     DRIVER
          Hey, once a driver, always a driver.  You
          want a lift?  I've just got one more
          pickup.

                     CHUCK
          Sure.

He picks up his bike.

INT.  FEDEX TRUCK - MOMENTS LATER

The FedEx truck makes its way down the beach, Chuck in his
uniform, the Driver in hers.  Two FedEx people in a truck.
The Driver looks over at Chuck.

                     DRIVER
          You're Chuck Noland.

                     CHUCK
          Yeah.

                     DRIVER/ERICA
          I knew it!  You're a legend!  Mr.
          Robinson Crusoe.

                     CHUCK
          Well --

                     ERICA
          I knew I recognized you.  My name's
          Erica.

They smile at each other.  Then she smiles a little more.

                     ERICA
          Did you really steal a crippled kid's
          bicycle to make your deliveries, or is
          that just some bullshit story?

                     CHUCK
          I didn't steal it, and he wasn't
          crippled.

Erica laughs.

                     ERICA
          Otherwise it's completely true.

And that makes Chuck laugh, really laugh, for the first time.

                     CHUCK
          Yeah, completely.

She looks over at him with a grin.

                     ERICA
          What brings you out to the sticks?

                     CHUCK
          Had a package to deliver.

                     ERICA
          You?  Personally?

                     CHUCK
          I had it on the island with me.

                     ERICA
          Must be a story there.

There's a connection building here, effortlessly.

EXT.  BEACH - MOMENTS LATER

We are wide on the beach, watching the truck move along the
water, kicking up wisps of sand.

                     CHUCK (V.O.)
          Yeah, a long one.

                     ERICA (V.O.)
          I've got lots of time.

                     CHUCK (V.O.)
          So do I.

The truck goes down the beach and then turns inland, away
from the ocean.  Away from all that.

                     CHUCK (V.O.)
          So do I.

And we pull back, taking in the sweep of the beach, the
estuaries, and the green forest stretching back into America.

The end is the beginning.

FADE OUT.



The Perfect Storm Script
  
            Bobby.
            Bobby.
            No!
            All right, we lined up?
            Get that line.
            Put the stern line on quick.
            Bobby!
            Hey, baby!
            Missed you.
            Hey, big man, how you doing?
            -Hey, Murph! -Hey, Ethel.
            How you doing? Welcome home.
            -You seen Deb and my boy? -No, I'm sorry.
            Ma!
            -How you doing, beautiful? -Hello, Bobby.
            Home safe.
            Who's that?
            -OI' Ben. -No.
            Poor old guy.
            Hey, Linda.
            -Hey, boss. -What's the score?
            My kind of numbers.
            I lost Ben Pulley. He passed away onboard.
            Sorry to hear that.
            How'd you hit it, Billy?
            Didn't hit very hard, did you?
            We all have slumps, but you're overdue to break out of yours.
            Did you hear the lady? Ben Pulley's dead.
            That old man pickled himself to death drinking  & s chasing Narragansetts.
            Linda, with Ben, it was never a question of "if", but "when."
            -I'll bury him. -I'll pay for it.
            See, you got what you wanted.
            Bring in your fish. It shouldn't take too long.
               - .
               - - .
              Murph.
              Sign my ledger.
              Shatford.
              Sign my ledger.
              What's the matter?
              It's $    . Aren't we a little short?
              We were sharing up last night. I thought it'd be three plus.
              You stocked       pounds at  .   a pound. That comes to $     .
              Minus $      for bait, tackle, fuel. That comes out to $     .
              I get half. I own the boat.
              Your captain takes double share, four crewmen get a share each.
              And a rookie like you, three-quarters share.
              That comes to $     .
              What it is, is what it is.
              Sign the ledger.
              Moran.
              You going out again this season, skipper?
              Why?
              You got a site in Florida?
              Bradenton Beach.
              The "Cecile."
              Pack your shit and get out.
              You like Florida?
              Well, it beats the Grand Banks in October.
              It gets rough up here, Dougie likes the sun down there.
              Or he thinks he'll score better with another captain.
              I didn't say that.
              Yes, you did.
              Goodbye.
              Here's your cut. $    .  . Sign the ledger.
              That's a record low for you, isn't it?
              Next time, track Linda. She'll take you where the fish are.
              You're getting to be rude, you know?
              I like you, Billy. I always have.
              But I like my boat better.
              If you can't make it pay, I'll find somebody who can.
              You trying to put a charge up my ass?
              You're on a cold streak.
              I'm encouraging you to catch fish.
              I'll bring you more fish than you ever dreamed of.
              Next time I fish the Grand Banks, they won't be so grand.
              You just struck out on the Grand Banks.
              Then I'll go further.
              Don't even think about it. I want my boat back.
              And I want to catch some fish.
              It's what I do.
              Not lately.
              Want to yank my site, you go ahead.
              -Murph. -Hey, skip.
              What are you doing out here? Get in there. Get drunk.
              Waiting on my ex...
              ...and my son.
              Give him lots of hugs and kisses tonight.
              You don't gotta remind me to do that, skip.
              Ladies, you're looking fine. How you doing?
              Can I buy you a drink? What, what, what?
              Hey, rookie.
              What are you so happy about?
              It wasn't exactly a slammer up on the Grand Banks.
              Isn't it past your bedtime?
              Bugs, how you making out?
              I'm not.
              I don't know. Maybe I smell like fish.
              -You need a new deodorant. -Maybe I need a new face.
              Frickin' Alfred Pierre.
              They were upstairs, they come down, a little refreshment.
              Now they're going back up again.
              Half an hour ago, they shook the lamps over the bar.
              Last time she brought her sister. You should've seen the lamps then.
              How do he do it, mon?
              I think he's fishin' with a longer pole, Bugs.
              What happened?
              They had a sale on kids' shoes at Ames.
              Sorry.
              No problem.
              Hi.
              Hello.
              So you want to have a drink?
              Come on, Debra.
              What do you say, for old times' sake?
              It was the old times that killed us.
              Is that what it was?
              There you go.
              I'm a little short. It wasn't exactly a slammer.
              Half for you.
              You sure?
              Yeah, I'm working.
              Want to come with your daddy?
              Shoot some pool?
              Have a drink?
              Just bring him home in an hour.
              Good shot, buddy.
              All right, Sully, you think about it.
              All right?
              Bugs.
              Murph, come here.
              Here comes your fearless leader, Captain Billy Tyne.
              I got a feeling skipper's coming to give us bad news.
              Lady's not only pretty, she's smart.
              Yeah, we're going back out.
              What'd I tell you?
              -When? -A few days.
              "Few" means two?
              Two days is right.
              Skip, we just got back in.
              You don't want your site, a replacement's a call away.
              Join me, don't join me.
              There's time for one last shot. The "Andrea Gail" will take it.
              This time I promise you, we'll come back with a shitload of fish.
              Excuse me, men, madam.
              What are you gonna do?
              I'm gonna tell him to stick his head up his ass.
              I'd like to hear that.
              Hear what?
              I'd like to hear you tell him to stick it up his ass.
              Go on, Bob.
              Yeah, that's just how I'll tell him as soon as we get back.
              You're a bastard.
              Why? Why do I even love you?
              -Come on. -No. Why? Why, Bobby?
              When you get the answer, tell me. I could use it myself.
              -Get laid, Bugsy. -Easy for you to say.
              Go on up there.
              Don't make the same mistake I did.
              You're going away again?
              Yeah.
              Take me with you.
              Come here.
              Go back, Bobby.
              Go back to what you did before.
              -Pack cod, repair tackle. -I'm sick of that.
              It's safe and it pays.
              Not enough.
              Just one more time. I promise.
              I have to try it again. We need the money, baby.
              Money. It's always about the money.
              Well, I got a divorce lawyer, a mountain of debt.
              And there's your two kids. You gotta get them back.
              Do you think you'll love them?
              They're yours, aren't they?
              Hey, beautiful.
              Yeah, you.
              Buy you a drink?
              Seeing as I got two in front of me, I don't think so.
              I'm not very observant, am I?
              I got a feeling, yeah, along with a lot of other things.
              Why don't we start over?
              You know what would look good on you? Me.
              No good?
              Have a drink. It's not that bad.
              Thank you. Here's to crime.
              You're pathetic.
              You still want to be a fisherman?
              Who told you I wanted to be a fisherman?
              You want to come with me.
              I want to come with you, but I don't want to be a fisherman.
              You know, buddy...
              ...one of these days your mom's gonna find you a new dad.
              I don't want a new dad.
              I'm sorry.
              Your mom can't sit around by herself all the time.
              She isn't sitting around.
              I'm sure he's a good guy.
              I know your mom wouldn't take up with anybody but a good guy.
              And you know, buddy...
              ...the most important thing is that you and Mommy are happy.
              Can we talk about something else now?
              I miss you too, buddy.
              I miss you so damn much.
              What'd you say your name was again?
              Irene. Is that so tough?
              I'm sorry. Listen.
              Could I maybe take you home?
              I don't think so.
              I came to watch the game. Instead I got schnockered with Bugsy.
              -What does Bugsy stand for anyway? -Michael.
              That's a nice name. Why don't you use it?
              Because people know me as Bugsy.
              I'm gonna shove off now. Big day tomorrow.
              I can't take you home?
              What, in a wheelbarrow?
              Crew guys like you never have cars.
              Lay off. I got feelings too.
              Where, down in your pants?
              Jesus, lady, where's the passion in your life?
              Home in bed.
              One of them's   the other one's  .
              All I can say is, there's some lucky kids.
              They got a wonderful mother.
              You're not messing with me, are you?
              Haven't got time. We're going out in two days.
              Well, I'm sorry to hear that, Michael.
              Gotta go.
              What do you mean?
              -Where you going? -Have these.
              -Thank you. -See you.
              -Bye, Ethel. -See you.
              Watch your step.
              I smell Coppertone.
              That means that Captain Linda Greenlaw...
              ...a lady vain about her nose, is in my wheelhouse.
              Make that Hawaiian Tropic.
              At least I got the nose right.
              Your guys are loading bait and groceries.
              -You doing a turnaround? -No rest for the weary.
              There you go. Flaunting your work ethic.
              I don't have a work ethic. I just have work.
              If I'm gonna catch up to you.
              I love to watch you study charts.
              Why?
              You know them all by heart.
              What's special about today that you're blowing smoke up my ass?
              I thought I'd make a pass.
              You see, I'm looking for a guy to come home to Maine with me...
              ...buy a house and raise kids.
              What does that guy and you do after?
              The thing is, I'm happy. I'm happy I'm fit to do this.
              I just don't see the romance in it.
              But you've got it, Captain Greenlaw.
              You do. Believe me.
              I've seen them come and go.
              The day I laid eyes on you, I said, "She's gonna be a good one."
              You can't be good unless you love it.
              The fog's just lifting.
              You throw off your bow line, throw off your stern.
              You head out the South Channel...
              ...past Rocky Neck, Ten Pound Island...
              ...past Niles Pond, where I skated as a kid.
              Blow your horn...
              ...and wave to the lighthouse keeper's kid on Thatcher Island.
              Then the birds show up.
              Black-backs...
              ...herring gulls, big dump ducks.
              The sun hits you.
              Head north, open up to   .
              You're steaming now.
              The guys are busy, you're in charge.
              You know what? You're a goddamn swordboat captain.
              Is there anything better in the world?
              Sully.
              So what do you think?
              You been busy?
              Busy enough.
              I was working menhaden in Annisquam.
              But they laid off Labor Day.
              Mended nets over in Fairhaven.
              That's crap. What's this you're doing now?
              Helping out a friend.
              He paying you?
              He's my friend.
              Murphy keep his site?
              You want this job or not?
              I do.
              Lord, did I do that?
              Yeah, you did.
              But I'm not completely blind. I can still see out of the other one.
              Next time I should break a leg.
              Then you can stay home and collect disability.
              Think of all those handicapped parking spaces.
              Tell me last night was worth it.
              I can't remember.
              Can't remember, my ass.
              No, I remember your ass.
              Last night was worth it.
              There's nothing like sleeping with you.
              Just sleeping...
              ...lying next to you...
              ...all warm and sweet.
              And me wishing the morning would never come.
              Catching up.
              Oh, boy, oh, boy. Look at that shiner.
              Come on, Murph, will you?
              Good morning. Where'd you get the mouse?
              Chris "Boom-Boom" Cotter.
              Put some hair around that hole, I bet you could hit it.
              Not with a pool cue, or any other pointed instrument.
              What do you know except to cut squid and take them to bed with you?
              Ethel, where you getting your customers these days?
              The welfare office?
              Who gave you that scar, tough guy?
              Back off! Back off.
              Come on, swing it.
              You assholes!
              How you gonna act onboard if you're already at each other's throats?
              All right, Ma.
              See you onboard.
              -Alfred Pierre, one for the road? -No, tanks, Mom.
              "No, tanks, Mom." Guy can't even speak good English.
              Well, anyway, can I get you anything?
              Let's go, boys.
              I'll wait for you in the car, Bobby.
              Catch fish, boys. Lots of them. Full ahead.
              Hold down the fort, Quentin.
              Thanks, Q.
              Thanks, Ethel.
              Gotta go, Mom.
              The Grand Banks.
              I know.
              Grand Banks are no joke in October. All right?
              Be careful.
              At least we'll get cancer together.
              I can't put it off any longer.
              I'm not too big on goodbyes.
              Don't go, Bobby. I got a bad feeling.
              I've been thinking about it.
              Then for God's sake, don't go.
              I'll moonlight, I'll sell the car.
              We'll work nights, weekends.
              Whatever it takes, little by little, we'll put something away.
              I gotta go.
              Michael.
              Irene.
              Irene. I knew that.
              I just wanted to say goodbye.
              No one ever said goodbye to me before.
              Well, goodbye, Irene.
              Goodbye.
              I wish it were night so I could say, "Good night, Irene."
              That'll come later.
              Well, you gotta go.
              Come on, boys. Let's go.
              I love you.
              I will always love you, Christina.
              Pack it in there good. We got more coming down.
              Did we get all them eggs up there?
               We catching some fish
              Is that gonna crap out again?
              Never!
              Do you mind?
              Stinks in here, doesn't it?
              Not anymore.
               Hi, Bobby:  You're somewhere out there...
               ...on the deep blue, goddamn sea...
               ...and I'm writing this on a box  of two semi-down pillows...
               ...that I secretly bought for us  at Penney's.
               And I'm smiling to myself because...
               ...of the surprise I have  in store for you.
               I'm talking removal from our dungeon  in the Crow's Nest...
               ...to our own place.
               It's no great shakes...
               ...but you gotta begin  with a baby shake, right?
               Forever love, Bobby.
               I'm in this for the long run.
              -I'm not intruding, am I? -You're not intruding.
              You're a natural.
              You've got some old salt in your blood.
              Thanks.
              You're a happy man out here, aren't you?
              Today, maybe.
              When do you get unhappy?
              The day we go home.
              Home? I thought the sea was your home.
              You got me there.
              But if you were gonna pin me down...
              ...I guess Pensacola, Florida is home.
              My ex lives there. Jodi.
              And my kids.
              I wasn't very good at doing things the way they're supposed to be done.
              Wife.
              Kids.
              A house with things in it. All that stuff.
              So why are you so happy?
              You just got me on a good day.
              I'm doing what I was made to do.
              And I got a feeling I'll do it even better this time.
              How about you?
              I got a woman I can't stand to be more than two feet away from.
              Congratulations.
              Then again, I love to fish.
              Son, you've got a problem.
              I know.
              Here you are.
              What do you think? Blue skies, scattered showers, same old, same old?
              -Your guess is as good as mine. -Or better.
              Watch it.
              This doesn't look good.
              Looks pretty ugly here too.
              Pam.
              Tell Bernie I need two graphics: Bermuda and Sable Island.
              Good.
              What's our course?
              I've been sailing    years. Never plotted a course.
              I set the compass, I ride it...
              ...we'll be in Bermuda in no time.
              Let's go fishing.
              All right, guys, let's hit it!
                   hooks in the water before dinner. I want    miles out there.
              Three-mile buoy out!
              Yeah, baby.
              Set.
              Okay, Sully, put it out.
              Highflyer!
              Hey, A.P.
              May the force be with us.
              You want to play with lightsticks, stick them up your ass.
              Easy, Murph.
              He's dead weight. He's been screwing around all night.
              A juicer and a head.
              Cape Ann, bottom shelf.
              Yeah, well, your wife didn't feel that way.
              Hey, knock it off!
              I'll head for land and the Newfies will throw you both in jail!
              All right, cap.
              Give us some lights.
              Come on. Jesus.
              Shake, you guys.
              Shake!
              -Just let it go. -Your day is coming.
              Whenever you're ready. I'll be right up here.
              The job ain't hard enough without this knucklehead.
              Let's go.
              We're gonna make some money.
              Let's go, boys!
              Let's go! Come on!
              Come on.
              Do it, skip, do it.
              Make a killing.
              One's on.
              Fish on.
              Have those gaffs ready.
              Don't lose him, Murph. Don't lose him.
              Pull him in, Murph.
              All right, now, gaff him. Gaff him!
              One, two, three!
              Pull him in.
              Come on, a little bit more.
              So what do you think?
              Do you think he'll like it?
              He'll love it.
              Enough to live with me in it?
              By now, honey, you know him much better than I do.
              We're gonna make a go of it.
              I got confidence in you.
              What, are you putting me on?
              He's my precious boy.
              And you're the woman for him.
              That's something I don't joke about.
               The activity down near Bermuda  is deepening rapidly.
               Given the warm and volatile  Gulf Stream...
               ...it won't take much to turn  this tropical storm into a hurricane.
               This just in, video of Sable Island.
              I put so much ground beef and sausage in this, it weighed out at    pounds.
              More than most of our fish weigh.
              Skipper say anything about us coming up short?
              He's too scared to say.
              Skipper don't get scared.
              Just disappointed.
              You know why this lasagna weighs    pounds?
              It tasted like you threw in a shot put.
              I once worked a site with a guy like you.
              The guy had a real bad accident.
              Can't even keep track of them with so many accidents at sea.
              Tough to get an ambulance too.
              Keep it up.
              Highflyer!
              A.P., give me a hand.
              Hey, how about a little hand over here?
              You do your job, I'll do mine.
              Come on, guys.
              Came out here for nothing.
              Keep moving, keep moving.
              Come on, Sully, let's get some bait going here.
              It's big.
              -Something very big. -Fish on!
              Come on, guys.
              Oh, yeah.
              Come on. Bring it up.
              Bring it up.
              Get the gaff!
              Get it out of here!
              Stick him. Stick it in his head! Good!
              Get him off!
              -He's got my leg! -Hang on!
              Kick your foot out! Kick it! Kick your foot out.
              Get back!
              All right, come on, get it out!
              Get it out of here.
              -Pull him back! -Over the side.
              You all right?
              You're short a boot, rookie!
              Beats a leg, don't it?
              Okay, we're getting a reading of winds over     knots sustained.
              Looks like a category  .
              "Billy Tyne is no fine wine
              He's lost his touch with our long line
              Steamed here and there and all about
              What's our tally?
              We've struck out"
              All right, okay. Thank you very much. Thank you.
              Why aren't you downstairs watching the movie?
              One of our three movies?
              I know them all by heart.
              Skip...
              ...what are you gonna do about those sets? They suck.
              We ain't doing nothing.
              The boys been talking?
              About how I lost it?
              Billy Tyne's lost it? Gets a little slow, they'll draw and quarter you.
              I just didn't think you'd go along with it.
              I come here because I need the money. I'm trying for a new start.
              Last trip I thought you had something to offer.
              But all in all, you're just a little punk.
              -You promised me a shitload of fish! -You'll get a shitload of fish.
              I've been in bad patches so many times and came home with so much stock...
              ...little boys like you had to pack it on the pier.
              I always find the fish! Always!
              And I will this time! So don't fuck with me!
              Aye, aye, skip.
              Put them closer!
              Murph, closer! Give them a goddamn banquet.
              Aye, aye, cap.
              You heard him, boys. Boss ain't happy.
              Double-time.
              Let's go, Bob.
              Sullivan!
              I gotta hit you with a fish again to get you to work?
              Lightsticks, now!
              Shut up, asshole!
              You couldn't bait fish in a barrel!
              -Come on. -See what I got to deal with?
              That's a landlubber. What an idiot!
              Come on, Sully. What are you, a fisherman or a farmer?
              Bugs, help him out.
              Hurry up, before the captain sees.
              Okay, sure, I'll help him out. What a screwup!
              -You're useless, Sully! -Lay off, Bugs. You never screw up?
              You're nothing but a pimple on the ass of progress.
              I've been on a better slab than this.
              I've had it with this.
              Take it easy. It was an accident.
              You got the easiest job on the boat, and you manage to screw it up!
              Kiss my ass, you little runt. And you--!
              Murph!
              Cap, man overboard!
              Take the wheel!
              Back her down slow.
              Come on, Murph.
              We've got Murph!
              Come on!
              You all right? You all right?
              Come on, Murph.
              Come on.
              Come on.
              How was the water, Murph?
              Welcome back, Murph!
              You did it, Murph.
              Hold on a minute.
              All right, bend over.
              Tetanus.
              Who's the hero?
              Bobby and Sully.
              Sully?
              Ladies and gentlemen, Dale Murphy out of Cortez, Florida.
              The only fish the "Andrea Gail" has hooked in three days.
              How you feeling?
              All right.
              -Bobby, thank you. -Don't worry about it.
              Sully was the first one to go in.
              So I guess you're the big hero here.
              Well, you'd have done the same for me.
              Isn't that what I'm supposed to say?
              Well, you can say what you want...
              ...but I'm glad you know how to swim.
              That's real big of you, Murph.
              It's all I can manage now.
              All right?
              I'll work on it.
              Tough guy.
              This weather fax just came in.
              Edie, have a look at this.
              We have got to head in now! Put it in at Watch Hill!
              In this stuff, harbor's too dangerous.
              Dangerous?
              Dash into shore, cut across shipping lanes--
              This is a hurricane coming straight at us!
              Let me reduce sails, Sandy, or even go back home.
              This is my boat.
              We'll ride this thing out. Not for fun, for safety.
              Do what I've always done: Go with the flow.
              Holy shit! Rogue wave!
              Look out!
              Everybody here?
              Captain, the boys would like to have a word with you.
              Take over.
              When this meeting's over, straighten this crap up.
              So what's the word?
              We're starting to get an unlucky feeling out here.
              Murph going over, the shark, a rogue wave....
              Yeah, what else?
              Never mind unlucky. We're just looking for some fish.
              We had slumps before, you and l, but nothing like this.
              You boys look like you got busted in a brawl in Scollay Square.
              That's how we feel. We want to go home.
              You want to go home? You lonely for that young mama who was all over you?
              My girl is none of your business.
              But you are. If you don't like it, get the hell off! All of you.
              I look around and all I see are little boys sitting on their asses...
              ...too scared to go and get some pay dirt.
              Pay dirt? What are you talking about? Where the hell is that?
              We covered the Grand Banks.
              The Grand Banks are west of us. I'm headed east.
              The Flemish Cap.
              The Flemish Cap?
              Why don't we steam to Portugal while we're at it?
              So this is the moment of truth.
              This is where they separate the men from the boys.
              How about it?
              -Are you Gloucestermen? -Yeah.
              But why go all the way to the Flemish Cap to prove it?
              Tell him, Alfred Pierre.
              That's where the fish are.
              Do we have any other choice?
              Yeah. Crawl home, busted.
              -All right, skip. -All right.
              All right.
               Whiskey-Yankee-Charlie,  - - -    do you read me?
              This is "Andrea Gail," Whiskey- Yankee-Charlie,  - - -  . Hey, Linda.
               What's happening?
               Slim to none. Where are you?
              Tail of the Banks. Kicking up something wicked here.
              Made a couple of sets.
              You doing any good?
              Nine, first set. Twelve-- No, make that a baker's dozen, second.
               Got a couple of markers to boot.
              Your hand is so hot, I can feel the heat from here.
              -I've asked you to team up.  -I don't like partners.
              Business-wise, that is.
              Okay, okay. What's your position?
                 north,    west.
              You headed for the Flemish Cap?
               The lady knows her coordinates.  Yeah, I'm steaming full-bore.
              The Flemish Cap is nearly off the charts.
              What are you trying to prove?
              We got gale-force coming out of Bermuda, stuff out of Sable Island.
               As for me, I'm staring here  at solid white chop.
              This could be a triple-header.
              You're behind me. So is your weather.
              Yeah, but you've gotta go through it to get back.
              Good point.
              Billy, you won't like this, but I'm gonna say it anyway:
              You be careful.
              Yes, Mother.
              Why don't we pick this up later? I'm out.
              -You guys use some company? -Sure.
              -Coffee? -Yeah, thanks.
               --in the mid-Atlantic,  moving rapidly northeast...
               ...  -foot waves.
              What'd you hear?
              They're out on the Flemish Cap.
              I got it straight from big Bob Brown.
              Yeah.
              The Flemish Cap.
              I went there, '  .
              Lots of fish.
              And lots of weather.
              Hurricanes...
              ...squalls, huge seas.
              You're full of shit, Quentin.
              That's right.
              I am.
              -Where are you going? -To point this boat up into the storm.
              And scream for help!
              We lie ahull, beam to the waves, slip sideways. Standard procedure.
              Forget it, we won't make it! Missy, get on the radio now!
              -We can make it. -Mayday!
              It's sopping wet! She'll be weeping in the wind. No!
              We stay below and ride this thing out.
              Remember, this is my boat!
              This is my life!
              Go, Melissa!
              Mayday!
              Mayday! Mayday!
              We're a   -foot sailing vessel, "Mistral."
              Our position is...
              ...  .   north--
              Mayday! Mayday!
              Over.
              Hey, cap!
              Ice machine's had it. It's dead.
              -Check the evaporator? -Yeah.
              -Freon? -Plenty, but nowhere to flow.
              Use some spit and glue.
              I did. She's fried, skip.
              I told Brown, get us a new one...
              ...but he gets another overhaul, son of a bitch!
              Sorry.
              The ice machine's gone.
              Oh, fuck.
              All right, we got good ice on them now.
              We seal the fish hold.
              With luck, we'll deliver the catch and set the market.
              Pull up the gear.
              We're going home.
              Put these babies on ice, and we're out of here!
               We are taking heavy waves.  Damage on deck.
               Need immediate assistance.
               We're beam to the sea  and taking on water.
              Just so you understand what we're up against.
              We're looking at    to   -foot waves, gale-force winds. A real bad one.
              Right in our path.
              The Weather Service is jerking off again.
              No.
              You're afraid?
              I never seen you scared.
              It's pretty rough stuff out there, that's for sure.
              We either hang out here for a few days till it calms down--
              But, cap...
              ...we got       pounds of fish here.
              Are we gonna let it spoil?
              I thought we were gonna set the market, make a killing.
              Or we say the hell with it.
              We drive right through it.
              You said we're Gloucestermen.
              What do you say, guys?
              Are we or aren't we?
              Did we come out here for nothing?
              -lt's a lot of money. -Let's make some money.
              Come on. Let's hear it, Gloucester!
              Let's get her lashed down. Bugs, put the birds in the water.
              Birds in. Got it, skip.
               Look. Look at this.
                We got Hurricane Grace moving north off the Atlantic seaboard.
                Huge...
                ...getting massive.
                Two, this low south of Sable Island, ready to explode.
                Look at this.
                Three, a fresh cold front swooping down from Canada.
                But it's caught a ride on the jet stream...
                ...and is motoring hell-bent towards the Atlantic.
                Cool.
                Wait, wait.
                What if Hurricane Grace runs smack into it?
                Add to the scenario this baby off Sable Island, scrounging for energy.
                She'll start feeding off both the Canadian cold front...
                ...and Hurricane Grace.
                You could be a meteorologist all your life...
                ...and never see something like this.
                It would be a disaster of epic proportions.
                 It would be...
                 ...the perfect storm.
                Let's get down below.
                Bobby?
                I want you up here with me.
                Mayday! Mayday!
                "Sailing vessel" Mistral,  this is Coast Guard rescue.
                Sandy!
                Edie, they heard me! They're coming!
                 Air Force rescue  - -  .
                We've located the "Mistral."
                 Position:   .   north...
                 ...  .   west.
                How far's that last position?
                About   .  miles, captain.
                OD, boatswain on the bridge.
                Tallyho, there they are.
                -Okay, guys, showtime. -You got it.
                "Mistral", this is  - -  .
                We're gonna extract you one at a time from the deck.
                Hey, Jeremy, I don't like this.
                -Clock's ticking. -Come on, we better get them off now.
                Get closer, Darryl.
                Just a little closer.
                Okay, deploying the basket.
                Close to  :  .
                Let's come right to  .
                -Four. Three. -Son of a bitch.
                Stop there. Hold your hover.
                Goddamn it!
                Keep it steady, keep it steady.
                Shit!
                Man out!
                -Shear the cable! -No, I got it!
                Shit.
                Bring up the basket!
                Sandy!
                Hold on!
                I got you!
                -Basket's in. -Looks like I'm going for a swim.
                Okay, go get them.
                Mitchell off intercom.
                It's time to get wet.
                We're gonna be all right.
                Go.
                Altitude.
                Altitude. Get her up, get her up!
                He's in the water.
                I'm going after him!
                No, no, wait! Stand by!
                Jonesy, hold on.
                There! He's okay.
                This isn't working. They'll have to get in the water.
                Come on, come on!
                You're having a blast, huh?
                -Want a turn? -No, just watch. I want to watch.
                I'm studying up for the day I get my own boat.
                Your own boat, huh?
                Want to give me a hand? Grab the throttle.
                Hang on.
                -Ah, shit! -Seven K, six easy.
                -Eight minimum. -Ten.
                You know, I'm gonna get me a new used Ford F-   ...
                ...take a ride to Digby with Irene.
                Going to get drunk, eat like a pig and sleep like a child!
                Fish and fun-gee!
                Okay, Jer, too risky to go lower. You gotta jump from here.
                Good afternoon, madam. I'm Sergeant Jeremy Mitchell.
                I'll be your para-rescue jumper today.
                How are you?
                Okay so far.
                Keep your hands and feet in the basket.
                -Careful. -Okay!
                All right, here we go.
                You're next.
                That was nothing!
                Come on!
                Oh, my God.
                It's happening.
                 Andrea Gail, Andrea Gail. This is "Hannah Boden."
                --Billy, over.
                Calling the "Andrea Gail."
                "Andrea Gail," do you read me?
                Do you read me? Come in!
                Come in, for God's sake, come in! Billy, these storms have collided!
                They are exploding!
                Who is it?
                I don't know.
                "Andrea Gail," come in!
                Whiskey-Yankee-Charlie  - - -  over.
                Talk to me, Billy, over.
                I repeat, Whiskey-Yankee-Charlie  - - -  --
                Look at your fax, damn it! Look at your fax!
                Whiskey-Yankee-Charlie  - - -  over!
                 -Where are you, Billy? -Linda?
                Give me the coordinates.
                -   north,   .  west. -We're    north...
                 ...  .  west, headed west.
                 I repeat,    north,    .  west, headed--
                 Over.
                Billy, get out of there.
                Come about! Let it carry you out! What the hell are you doing?
                Hang on!
                Billy! Billy, for chrissake!
                You're steaming into a bomb! Turn around, for chrissake!
                It's the antenna.
                Billy, can you hear me?
                You're headed right for the middle of the monster.
                Oh, my God.
                Hang on!
                Take the wheel.
                No, I'll go.
                Mayday, mayday, mayday...
                ...Coast Guard Boston.
                This is fishing vessel "Hannah Boden" relaying a mayday...
                ...for swordboat "Andrea Gail."
                Last position,    north...
                ...  .  west, over.
                 Advise you proceed to next incident  at your discretion, over.
                Yeah, roger, Boston.
                I just got a mayday on a Gloucester swordboat, the "Andrea Gail."
                   north,   .  west, headed west.
                Jesus. That's straight into hell.
                Gloucester. They're always from Gloucester.
                It's an increased-risk mission, so, you know, it's up to us.
                I'm getting a little air-to-air feeling.
                Refuel in hell? That's pretty sporty.
                Call the cutter. We're coming in hot.
                People, slight change of plans!
                We're gonna drop you on the Coast Guard cutter "Tamaroa."
                We got some swordfishermen who have lost their way.
                Or their minds.
                 This is rescue  - -   on final approach.
                 Rescue  - -  flight deck is green.
                There it is. You're being waved in.
                Thirty meters and closing.
                Twenty-five meters, winds   .
                Set a line at  - - .
                Beautiful. We're coming.
                Watch this wave, cap.
                  - -  looking good.  Transfer at will.
                Drop ladder.
                All right, send them down.
                Put your foot out.
                Left leg out.
                Mind your helm, goddamn it.
                Watch the deck!
                Come on.
                First survivor on deck.
                -Where's our fuel? -Refueling tanker is on the way.
                 Second survivor on deck.
                Jesus.
                It's gone.
                No antenna, no radio. We're back in the   th century.
                You want to call it quits, turn around?
                What do you think?
                I think she's a hell of a boat.
                With a hell of a crew.
                And a hell of a skipper.
                All right then, Gloucester...
                ...we're coming home!
                Take the wheel!
                Skipper, don't!
                Take the goddamn wheel! That's an order!
                Damn, I can't see anything.
                What's the gauge say?
                It's low, Jonesy. Where are they?
                -Tanker's on the way. -How many stops are they making?
                No!
                Come on! Not again.
                Hello? Ethel, thank God!
                I'm going crazy here. Even the weather guy's gone bananas.
                Have you heard from--? Hello? Ethel?
                Shit!
                There she is! Thank God.
                Let's fill her up, save these yahoos and get out of here.
                King  -  we have visual.
                Air Force rescue  - -  you've got a wet hose.
                All right now, hold on!
                In the water!
                Hold on, skip!
                Shit.
                Come on, skip!
                Come on, skip, come on!
                Yeah!
                Anything yet?
                Nothing about boats.
                -I got four nines. -He's a liar.
                Florence.
                 Damage estimates  are in the high millions.
                 Folks, the worst is yet to come.
                 The storm of the century.
                 Residents, stay inside,  pack sandbags against door frames.
                 A report here that Cape Ann  fishing industry is in tatters.
                 Lobstermen from Gloucester to Scituate  have lost their traps.
                "A missing swordboat," Andrea Gail,  out of Gloucester with a crew of six.
                 An Air National Guard rescue  helicopter has been dispatched.
                 At Logan International Airport,  flooded runways.
                We did it!
                -Get those windows boarded up! -All right, skip.
                Come on, board it up!
                Tell those guys forget it. We'll get our gas somewhere else.
                What do you think?
                We're running on fumes.
                King  -  this isn't gonna work.
                 This is not our night.
                We're issuing a mayday. Give the Coast Guard our coordinates.
                We're ditching.
                Mayday, mayday, Air Force rescue  - -  calling Coast Guard "Tamaroa."
                Mayday, mayday, Air Force rescue  - -  calling Coast Guard "Tamaroa."
                King  -  departing the area.
                Come on!
                Let's get it up!
                All right, guys, get ready!
                Hold on!
                Get it up there!
                Get another one.
                Come on.
                Whoa, whoa, whoa! Grab them, grab them!
                Hang on, there's a swell!
                Come on, guys, try to get you close.
                -Stay together. -Roger that.
                Number   is out!
                Bail! Bail out!
                -Leave yourself enough time, okay? -I'll be fine.
                Go, Jonesy, go!
                You're next.
                Hold on, hold on!
                Now, Jeremy, now! Go! Bail out!
                See you, Darryl.
                No, no, no, no. No!
                Over here!
                We're over here!
                Have you seen Mitchell?
                No.
                What about Jonesy?
                Nothing. Just you.
                Goddamn it, we don't lose anybody!
                Come on, lay it on.
                -Get it locked! -Get them on!
                They're not gonna make it!
                Tell them to hold on. I'll turn the boat.
                Right now, let's go!
                Come on, guys, you can do it!
                It's jammed! It's jammed!
                Lock it down!
                I can't hold her!
                Come on, get it up.
                Put it on now!
                Come on, this is it.
                -Get it on. -I'm trying!
                Get it on.
                It's loose. I got it!
                Man overboard!
                -What?! -Two over the side.
                Come on, help me!
                Hold on, I got you!
                Grab the line!
                Oh, God.
                We lost Bugsy!
                Bugsy!
                Hold on. Grab this.
                Hold on!
                Come on, Bugsy. Grab it!
                Grab it!
                Bugsy!
                There! Right there!
                Come on, let's go!
                I'm here, Jeremy, I'm here. I got you. We're here.
                Hey, talk to me, J. Talk to me.
                I'm all busted up, cap.
                Can't breathe.
                -Hey, Mitch, have you seen Jonesy? -No.
                Go find him. Go find Jonesy. Go get him.
                Boys, that's it.
                We can't make it.
                We're turning around.
                Come on, cap, we can do it.
                What about our catch?
                We'll mug them next time.
                This piece of water belongs to us.
                The fish will gather again for the "Andrea Gail..."
                ...when we come back.
                This is gonna be the turnaround of all time.
                Textbook.
                So get ready.
                If it were good news, he would've called us.
                The news is the rescue helicopter had to ditch.
                We can't raise the "Andrea Gail."
                What does that mean?
                We don't know anything.
                If anyone can survive this storm, it's Billy Tyne. I'll give him that.
                What do you want?
                Credit for having the guts to walk in here?
                I do.
                Give it to him.
                How you doing, Quentin?
                Pretty good, governor.
                You're counting your money.
                And my guy is out there risking his life for a bunch of stupid fish.
                That's the game.
                I hate the game. I hate the goddamn game!
                Do you hear me?!
                Do you read me, governor? Do you?!
                Do you read me?!
                Did you see him?
                I don't see anything!
                Look! There's the cutter.
                -Have them put out the cargo net. -Cargo net, aye, sir.
                Put me alongside them.
                I want five men on that net. And get the light out there.
                Okay, guys, hook in!
                Pick it up! Move!
                Keep your light on those swimmers!
                Get ready!
                Release the net now!
                Okay, now, Jeremy, swim!
                Swim!
                Give him a hand!
                Get ready!
                Come on!
                All right! Let's do it again.
                If they can't get to us, we'll get to them.
                Go up swell and drift down.
                Broadside, captain?
                Isn't it too dangerous? It's too hairy.
                I won't let two men drown!
                Hold on, Jer. Just hold on.
                When I say now, you go full throttle. Got it?
                We only get one chance at this.
                And then?
                We pray.
                Wait.
                Wait.
                Wait.
                Wait.
                Now!
                Faster!
                We did it!
                Guys, we're alive!
                We made the turn! We did it!
                Hey, skip, I'm giving you notice.
                This is my last trip.
                When we get back, I'm going right to Salisbury Beach with Chris.
                We're riding those go-carts, full-time.
                What do you think, skip?
                We're doing    knots.
                We keep this up, make it through till dawn...
                ...we might get out of here.
                They're coming around, Jeremy.
                I can't make it, cap. They're coming for you.
                You're wrong, Jer!
                They're coming for us.
                I'm not gonna leave you here, Jer.
                You have just one chance to grab ahold of those nets.
                -You roger that? -Okay.
                -Back full! -Back full on!
                You gotta swim now, Jer!
                Grab it, Jer, just grab it!
                Come on!
                Climb! Climb!
                Reach!
                We lost one! Pick up the net!
                Come on! Give me your hand!
                Reach and grab it with everything you got. Everything you've got!
                Hold on!
                Pull!
                Yes! Get them inside and clear this deck.
                All right, let's go.
                There's another man out there! There's another man!
                Jonesy!
                Jonesy!
                Skip, we're gonna make it.
                She's not gonna let us out.
                No.
                Come on, you bitch!
                Come on!
                Come on!
                Come on. We gotta get out.
                How do we do this, skip?
                No school for it.
                Never was.
                This is gonna be hard on my little boy.
                Bobby...
                ...I'm sorry I got you into this.
                Skip, we made the right call.
                We had to try.
                We were so close.
                It was a hell of a fight, though, huh?
                Let's get out of here, huh?
                 Christina.
                 Christina, can you hear me?
                 I don't know if you can,  but I'm talking to you, baby.
                 Do you know how much I love you?
                 I loved you the moment I saw you.
                 I love you now...
                 ...and I'll love you forever.
                 No goodbye.
                 There's only love, Christina.
                 Only love.
                 It's been a week of round-the-clock  flights involving...
                 ...efforts of half a dozen Northeast  air rescue stations.
                 However, as of this hour, the Coast  Guard has suspended its search...
                 ...for Air National Guard  para-rescue jumper Millard Jones.
                 He leaves a wife and three daughters.
                "The search for the" Andrea Gail  out of Gloucester...
                 ...has also been suspended  after aircrafts covered...
                 ...        square miles of ocean...
                 ... without finding a single survivor.
                 We'll have more news  after these messages.
                I knew Billy Tyne.
                I did not know his crew very well.
                But any man who sailed with him must've been the better for it.
                Robert Shatford...
                ...Dale Murphy...
                ...Michael Moran...
                ...David Sullivan...
                ...Alfred Pierre...
                ...may you rest easy, long-liners...
                ...in fair winds and calm seas.
                For those of us left behind...
                ...the unmarked grave which is home for those lost at sea...
                ...is of no consolation.
                It can't be visited.
                There is no headstone on which to rest a bunch of flowers.
                The only place we can revisit them...
                ...is in our hearts or in our dreams.
                They say swordboatmen suffer from a lack of dreams.
                That's what begets their courage.
                Well, we'll dream for you...
                ...Billy...
                ...Bobby...
                ...and Murph...
                ...Bugsy...
                ...Sully...
                ...and Alfred Pierre.
                Sleep well.
                Good night.
                I'll be asleep...
                ...and then all of a sudden, there he is.
                That big smile.
                You know that smile.
                And I say, "Hey, Bobby, where you been?"
                But he won't tell me.
                He just smiles and says:
                "Remember I'll always love you, Christina.
                I love you now, and I'll love you forever.
                There's no goodbye.
                Only love."
                And then he's gone.
                But he's always happy when he goes.
                So I know he's gotta be okay.
                Absolutely okay.
                I love your dream.
                 The fog's just lifting.
                 You throw off your bow line,  throw off your stern.
                 You head out the South Channel...
                 ...past Rocky Neck,  Ten Pound Island...
                 ...past Niles Pond,  where I skated as a kid.
                 You blow your horn and wave to...
                 ...the lighthouse keeper's kid  on Thatcher Island.
                 Then the birds show up.
                 Black-backs and herring gulls...
                 ...big dump ducks.
                 The sun hits you.
                 You head north, open up to   .
                 You're steaming now.
                 The guys are busy,  you're in charge.
                 You know what?  You're a goddamn swordboat captain.
                 Is there anything better in the world?

What Women Want Script

 

                   

Do you know

the expression ''a man's man'' ?



 

                   

A man's man

is the leader of the pack.



 

                   

The kind of man other men

look up to, admire and emulate.



 

                   

A man's man

is the kind of man who...



 

                   

just doesn 't get

what women are about.



 

                   

Nick, my ex-husband,

is the ultimate man's man.



 

                   

l probably never

should have married him.



 

                   

l don't think he understood

a thing about me.



 

                   

So, this is Nick Marshall's offiice.

Wanna peek ?



  

                   

Don't Worry.

He never gets in before   :  .



  

                   

He'll send you on more errands than

anyone in the entire company...



  

                   

'cause he can't do

anything for himself.



  

                   

He's the least politically

correct guy in the universe.



  

                   

He's the king of all

the T & A ads "We do".



  

                   

You want babes in bikinis ?

He's your man.



  

                   

My dad ? How can l

best describe him ?



  

                   

He's always been...

like an uncle to me.



  

                   

Yeah, Uncle Dad.



  

                   

Although,

Nick was a charmer.



  

                   

Completely irresistible

at first,



  

                   

Which feeds into

the whole ''man's man'' thing.



  

                   

You know about

Nick's mother, right ?



  

                   

Because once you understand

about Nick's mother,



  

                   

you understand Nick.



  

                   

Nick was actually

born and raised in Las Vegas.



  

                   

Nick's mother was a real,

honest-to-God Las Vegas showgirl.



  

                   

When other boys were outside

riding their bikes and playing ball,



  

                   

Nick was backstage

hanging with the girls.



  

                   

He was their mascot,

their little pet.



  

                   

They couldn 't get enough

of those baby blues.



  

                   

- Bang ! Bang !



  

                   

lf you ask me, l'd say Nick's

mother just about killed it...



  

                   

for every woman

Nick would ever meet.



  

                   

She had a lot of sugar daddies

in her life,



  

                   

but only one true love--



  

                   

the boy

with the family jewels.



  

                   

           .

Let me see that, kid.



  

                   

And since Nick

didn 't have a father,



  

                   

his mom made sure he was always

surrounded by strong role models.



  

                   

- Come here, huh ?



  

                   

- Men her boy could look up to.

- Now you're ready, huh ?



  

                   

Keep countin', kid.



  

                   

There was nothing normal about

the way Nick Marshall was raised.



  

                   

So, what can you expect ?



  

                   

You don't have to be Freud

to figure out...



  

                   

this was one cockeyed way

to enter the world.



  

                   

oh !



  

                   

Don't you ever knock ?



  

                   

lt's almost   :  . You gotta go

to work, and l gotta vacuum in here.



  

                   

And don't forget-- Another one

who wears vanilla perfume.



  

                   

Don't you know any women

who don't want to smell like candy ?



  

                   

- Toss me my lighter, babe ?

- Babe ?



  

                   

What am l,

a little pig ?



  

                   

l don't have time

to make you no onion bagel,



  

                   

so please do not start

to beg, okay ?



  

                   

And for the record, l don't like

finding these things in your sofa.



  

                   

What kind of woman

wears underwear like this ?



  

                   

Hey, my mother wore

underwear like that.



  

                   

Just put them some where,

Will you, babe ?



  

                   

Well, ''babe'' is gonna put it

in the trash where it belongs.



  

                   

- So, your mother should excuse me.



  

                   

Did you ever consider dating

a woman who wears real underwear?



  

                   

The kind that covers the entire

bottom the way it's supposed to ?



  

                   

- No. But if l do, should l call ?

- Oh !



  

                   

l'm gonna go clean

the kitchen.



  

                   

You couldn't toast me

a little bagel, could you ?



  

                   

Light cream cheese, tomatoes.

Capers if we have any.



  

                   

Please! Come on.

 lcan't think on an empty stomach.



  

                   

Okay. All right. But only because

you didn 't callme that pig name.



  

                   

Okay, you got it, babe.



  

                   

Mr. Marshall,

how are you doing today ?



  

                   

- l'm fit as a dancing bear.

- l'll get that cab for you.



  

                   

- That's some set of pipes you got.



  

                   

- You have an excellent day, sir.

- And you.



  

                   

At ease.



  

                   

- Oh, oh, l'm so sorry !



  

                   

l absolutely

did not mean to do that.



  

                   

- Here. Let me get that for you.

- lt's okay.



  

                   

No, l'm mortifiied.

l can see your hands are full.



  

                   

- Thank you.

- Sorry. Let me get the door.



  

                   

- Thank you.

- Thank you.



  

                   

Half cup, grande, non fat,

thick foam, wet cap, no lid.



  

                   

''Half caff,'' grande, non fat,

thick foam, wet cap, no lid.



  

                   

- So, when do you find out ?

- Um, today, l think.



  

                   

Unless l didn't get it, and then

l will just never find out.



  

                   

l'm sure l didn't get it. They were

looking for an ''earth mother'' type.



  

                   

l overheard the director

say l was more space cadet.



  

                   

l'm an actress.

l can be whatever you want.



  

                   

- ls that true, can you ?

- Oh, better be true.



  

                   

otherwise, l'm stuck playing ditsy

coffee girl the rest of my life.



  

                   

Thank you.

Hon ? Thanks.



  

                   

oh ! Hi, Nick. Hi.



  

                   

oh, Lola, my love. When are you

gonna let me buy you dinner ?



  

                   

Nick, l don't know why you don't

believe me. l'm not your type.



  

                   

Trust me on this one. Cappuccino,

extra foam. Tall or grande ?



  

                   

Grande. or at least

l like to think so.



  

                   

- Next.

- You know, rumor has it...



  

                   

l'm getting some really

big news at work today.



  

                   

At least come out with me.

Celebrate. l'll buy you a coffee.



   

                   

Memo to you:

l work in a coffee shop.



   

                   

Hi. What can l get you ?



   

                   

- Hi. l'll take--

- Want me to stop asking you out ?



   

                   

Sorry. This will

just take a sec.



   

                   

Because, Lola,

give me the word and l'll stop.



   

                   

Yes, l'm gonna give you the word

because l'm an actress.



   

                   

or at least l'm trying to be one.

l'm trying to concentrate on that.



   

                   

So, you know, it would be

a good thing, if you wouldn't mind,



   

                   

to stop asking me out !



   

                   

Honey, you seem

so stressed.



   

                   

l am stressed.

l have a lot on my plate.



   

                   

So, let's not talk

about this now.



   

                   

Why don't l meet you here,

say, tomorrow ?   :   ?   :   ?



   

                   

- okay, that would be good.

- So, that's a date ?



   

                   

lt's a date.

Thank you.



   

                   

Sir,

that was inspiring.



   

                   

l know.



   

                   

Good morning, Sloane-Curtis.



   

                   

- Good morning, Mr. Marshall.

- Hi, honey.



   

                   

- What's the dirt ?

- l was at breakfast this morning--



   

                   

- Hey, Norm ! You winning ?

-Of course.



   

                   

l heard Miller's shopping around,

looking for a new agency.



   

                   

Miller Lite. l know.

l'm all over it.



   

                   

Also, l heard Darcy McGuire left

B.B.D. & O. Good morning, Angela.



   

                   

-You're kidding. Left or was fired ?

-l don't know.



   

                   

Everyone there

is thrilled to get rid of her.



   

                   

Well, so much for

edgy female vision.



   

                   

So, that girl we met

last night at the club,



   

                   

nothing happened after

you put her in the cab, right ?



   

                   

lt did ?

Something happened ?



   

                   

But she said she had to

be in bed early.



   

                   

l had her in bed by    :  .

or was it quarter to ?



   

                   

You-- You're like a genius,

you know that ?



   

                   

What can l tell you, buddy ? l'm

blessed. And today is my lucky day.



   

                   

Not only is my ex-wife re marrying--

right now, as a matter of fact--



   

                   

but Wanamaker called me himself,

wanted to see me first thing.



   

                   

- Called twice to confirm.

- Call me when he makes it official.



   

                   

lt's not gonna be as easy to suck up

to ''creative director,'' you know.



   

                   

Not to worry. l'll make us a lunch

rez at the Drake to celebrate.



   

                   

Don't count your chickens,

huh ?  :   ?



   

                   

Pick you up.



   

                   

Can l borrow this ?



   

                   

- Hey, Dina.

- Hi.



   

                   

Do you know the difference

between awife and a job ?



   

                   

- What is it ?

- After ten years, job still sucks.



   

                   

- That's a good one, huh ?



   

                   

l wouldn't do that if l were you.

That's not a good idea, no.



   

                   

- oh, Mr. Marshall, hi.

- Hey.



   

                   

l put the story boards on your desk.

Picked up your shoes from Barney's.



   

                   

Got your glasses fiixed.

There was no charge.



   

                   

This morning's staff meeting

was cancelled.



   

                   

And l got your cigarettes.

They're next to your laptop.



   

                   

This morning's staff meeting

was cancelled.



   

                   

- That's what l was told.

- Hmm.



   

                   

Good morning, girls.



   

                   

Good afternoon, sire.



   

                   

Hey, anybody know why

the staff meeting was cancelled ?



   

                   

Nobody called us.



   

                   

oh, but Mr. Wanamaker wants

to see you as soon as you get in,



   

                   

- l know.

- You couldn't show up on time ?



   

                   

You know you're being promoted.

But you look very sharp, by the way.



   

                   

- Thank you.

- Like a creative director.



   

                   

- Very distinguished.



   

                   

You able to handle yourselves

on the   th floor ? Be truthful.



   

                   

Are you kidding ?

We were made for the   th floor.



   

                   

Now, get up there already,

so we can break out the bubbly.



   

                   

- Don't wait up.

- Don't Wait up.



   

                   

- He's so adorable.

- He says the cutest things.



   

                   

Boy.



   

                   

Sorry, buddy. l was in the board

meeting that would never end.



   

                   

- Have you been here long ?

- A couple minutes. That's all.



   

                   

Jess, can l get a cup of decaf

and a couple Tylenol?



   

                   

And see if we got any Echinacea.

And l need some club soda.



   

                   

l got something on my tie.

Know what ? Just get me another tie.



   

                   

l saw the mock-ups you did for

Johnny Walker. They're fantastic.



   

                   

oh, that's my job, Dan.



   

                   

So, you know I'm not great

at making speeches,



   

                   

especially when l haven't

got you to write them for me.



   

                   

So, l'll do my best. l've been

in this racket over    years.



   

                   

Let me tell you something,

it doesn't get any easier.



   

                   

As a matter of fact,

it gets harder and harder.



   

                   

The '  s

Were our glory days.



   

                   

They were all about

alcoohol, tobacco and cars.



   

                   

l felt like

l was on top of my game.



   

                   

And then in the '  s, men stopped

dominating how dollars were spent,



   

                   

and we lost our compass.



   

                   

Women between    and    are

the fastest-growing consumer group.



   

                   

Girls who were born in the mid-'  s

control our advertising dollars.



   

                   

Sorry. No Echinacea.

Hi, Nick.



   

                   

- Hey.

- Red or lavender?



   

                   

Red. No, no, lavender.

That's good.



   

                   

Lavender's good. While we've been

shooting beer commercials...



   

                   

With the Swedish bikini team,

the industry has been transformed.



   

                   

We were the agency in town

ten years ago.



   

                   

Now we're struggling

to be third.



   

                   

lf we don't evolve and think

beyond our natural ability,



   

                   

We're gonna go down.



   

                   

''Think beyond our natural--''

l'm not quite clear what you mean.



   

                   

What do you know

about Darcy McGuire ?



   

                   

Oh, hey, l heard on the whisper

she just left B.B.D. & O.



   

                   

l never met the woman, but

l hear she's a real man-eater.



   

                   

She won that Cleo last year we

should have won for the ad about--



   

                   

oh, yeah, right.

That was her ? l forgot about that.



   

                   

Yeah, l wish l had. Oh, boy, l hear

she is a bitch on wheels.



   

                   

- That's very funny.

- Yeah, why ?



   

                   

'Cause l just hired her.



   

                   

To do what ?



   

                   

You know l love you, Nick,

but it's a woman's world out there.



   

                   

Getting into a women's psyche

is not exactly your strong suit.



   

                   

You can get into their pants

better than anybody on Earth,



   

                   

but their psyche

is a whole other ball game.



   

                   

You hired Darcy McGuire

to do what ?



   

                   

She hasn't done it on her own yet,

but somebody was gonna grab her.



   

                   

And she's smart, Nick.

She's very smart.



   

                   

You made her creative director,

didn't you ?



   

                   

Sorry. This isn 't easy, but l got

the board breathing down my neck.



   

                   

She's coming in this afternoon.

You'll meet her.



   

                   

- Come on. Roll with this.



   

                   

Work with her because she's got what

l need to keep this place a float.



   

                   

She's got what you need,

meaning she's a woman.



   

                   

You know how we can

compete with that ?



   

                   

He's coming. He's coming.

He's coming.



   

                   

Not so fast, girls.

Put it on ice.



   

                   

We'll break it out soon.



   

                   

We're not moving

to the   th floor ?



   

                   

Not today.



   

                   

- oh.

- okay, Gigi, one more.



   

                   

Gigi, your ex is here.



   

                   

Honey, you look like...

$   million.



   

                   

Thank you.



   

                   

- May l kiss the bride ?

- Sure.



   

                   

- Nick.

- Nick ! Ted.



   

                   

Congratulations, Ted.

You're a lucky man.



   

                   

Well, thanks.

l happen to agree.



   

                   

So, you're going on a cruise.

Two weeks, huh ?



   

                   

Well, actually, the cruise

is just the last week.



   

                   

Alexandra has an itinerary,

and l faxed one...



   

                   

to your office yesterday,

to your apartment last week.



   

                   

Ted's offiice has one,

as does the school.



   

                   

-ln case l've fallen off the planet?

-You never know.



   

                   

Hey, here she is. Pretty in pink.

So, two whole weeks together?



   

                   

- Yeah, how you gonna handle it ?

- l'm gonna love it.



   

                   

You can take care of your old man.

Cook for me. Get my slippers.



   

                   

- Yeah, that'll be happening.

- Alexandra has a boyfriend now.



   

                   

- Mom !

- So he won't be surprised.



   

                   

You have a boyfriend ?

You're only    years old.



   

                   

Am l ?

l thought l Was   .



   

                   

We're gonna be fine.



   

                   

Look, l wanna meet Cameron.



   

                   

- okay if l meet Dad at his place ?

- ls it all right ?



   

                   

- Yeah, Well, l--

- What time ?



   

                   

 ..  .  ..   maybe ?



   

                   

-  :  .

- Okay.



   

                   

- Bye, Mom.

- oh, honey. l'm gonna miss you.



   

                   

l'm gonna miss you too.

Ted, have a good time.



   

                   

- Bye, pumpkin.

- Bye.



   

                   

- Nick.

- Honey.



   

                   

Later.



   

                   

Yeah,  :  's fiine.

Thanks for asking.



   

                   

And the name's Dad.



   

                   

- Here you go.

- Thanks.



   

                   

-Hey, l heard. l can't believe this.

-My next headache.



   

                   

Don't worry.

We'll get through it.



   

                   

Yeah.



   

                   

Everyone, everyone, meet Darcy McGuire.



   

                   

- oh, jeez.



   

                   

- My goodness. Everybody showed up.

- Darcy, how are you ?



   

                   

- Nice to see you. Hi !

- Pleasant surprise.



   

                   

- God, what a small world.

- Welcome aboard.



   

                   

l'm so glad to meet you.



   

                   

Hello. l'm Darcy.



   

                   

Hi. l'm Nick Marshall.



   

                   

oh, l've heard

a lot about you, Nick.



   

                   

-l've heard a lot about you too.

-Don't worry, can't all be true.



   

                   

Let's hope not.



   

                   

Hey.



   

                   

Hey, standing room only.

lt's a first.



   

                   

l'm very, very excited for you all

to meet Darcy McGuire.



   

                   

-Darcy's extraordinary reputation...



   

                   

as a leader in the field

precedes her.



   

                   

At B.B.D. & O., Darcy led

a creative team...



   

                   

that snagged $    million

in new business wins.



   

                   

And that was

just last year alone.



   

                   

At Sloane-Curtis, we've prided

our selves on our strategic thinking.



   

                   

Now it's time for us to step up

and prove ourselves creatively...



   

                   

in the marketplace.



   

                   

And 'm thrilled that Darcy

has consented to move across town,



   

                   

join our team and lead us

into the    st century.



   

                   

Thank you, Dan.



   

                   

And thank you all

for that warm welcome.



   

                   

Let me start off by saying

the feeling is mutual.



   

                   

l am absolutely

thrilled to be here.



   

                   

When l first started

in this business, it was my dream...



   

                   

to work at Sloane-Curtis.



   

                   

l even believe l applied

for a job here twice.



   

                   

- Somebody call personnel.



   

                   

But it was B.B.D. & O.

that offered me a home.



   

                   

And what l learned there

was that any success l had...



   

                   

Was a direct result of the team

of people that l work with.



   

                   

l know that two heads

are better than one.



   

                   

l know that five heads

are better than two.



   

                   

Andl know that if we put our heads

and our hearts into this company,



   

                   

we will deliver,

l know that.



   

                   

Now, l love challenges.

l love hard work.



   

                   

l look forward to sitting at this

very table tossing ideas around...



   

                   

until What l fear Will be

the Wee hours ofthe morning.



   

                   

l Want the Work We do

to say something about Who We are.



   

                   

- How we think, what we feel.

- l'm sorry.



   

                   

[ Coughs ]

Excuse me.



   

                   

So, as our friends in HollyWood say,

''Let's cut to the chase.''



   

                   

HoW are We gonna turn

this company around ?



   

                   

When Sears decided to go

after Women in their advertising...



   

                   

and said, ''Come see

the softer side ofSears,''



   

                   

their revenues

Went up    %.



   

                   

Thirty percent.

That's huge.



   

                   

Female-driven advertising

totalled$  billion lastyear.



   

                   

And Sloane-Curtis' share

ofthat Was ?



   

                   

Zero.



   

                   

lfyou Want to sell

an anti-Wrinkle cream...



   

                   

or a Ford Mustang

to a Woman-- forgive me--



   

                   

but this is the last place

you bring your business.



   

                   

And We can't afford to not have

a piece ofa $   billion pie.



   

                   

So, lhaveput together

a little kit foreverybody.



   

                   

Nobody panic.

This is supposed to be fun.



   

                   

Every product in this box

is looking for neW representation...



   

                   

right noW, and they're

all made for Women.



   

                   

l'mprettysure allthe women here

are familiar with theseproducts,



   

                   

so for the men let'sjust

briefly run through them.



   

                   

- [ Cracking Knuckles ]

- Here you go, Nick.



   

                   

Thankyou.



   

                   

Each kit contains

anti-Wrinkle cream,



   

                   

mascara,

moisturizing lipstick,



   

                   

bath beads,

quick-drynailpolish,



   

                   

an at-home waxing kit,

a more wonderful Wonderbra,



   

                   

- apregnancytest, hair volumizer,

- oh, sorry.



   

                   

pore cleansingstrips,

Advil,



   

                   

control-toppantyhose

anda Visa card.



   

                   

NoW l Want everybody

to come up With something--



   

                   

for one product, for tWo,

the Whole box-- Whatever moves you.



   

                   

We'llget togethertomorrow,

have a little show-and-tell.



   

                   

HoW's  :   for everybody ?



   

                   

Great. Seeyou at  ..  

tomorrowmorning.



   

                   

A nightmare.



   

                   

Read my lips--



   

                   

night-mare.



   

                   

- [ CroWd Cheering ]

- Miss, miss, miss !



   

                   

That's another     bucks.



   

                   

- [Switching Channels]

- Weplayourdangerousgame.



   

                   

A game ofchess...

against our old adversary.



   

                   

''Adversary'' ?

Surely you mean adversary, old boy ?



   

                   

Vinaigrette

for arugula salad.



   

                   

- ...Women's political caucus.

- Tuck thepelvis under. Lifting.



   

                   

[ lmpersonating Sean Connery ]

Buns ofsteel.



   

                   

l'd steal her buns

if l could.



   

                   

Here it comes.

Yes, he nailed the dismount !



   

                   

NoW let's check in

on the Women's fiinals.



   

                   

[ Grumbles ]

Women's fiinals.



   

                   

There's Way too much estrogen

on television these days.



   

                   

And as We all knoW,

the perfect antidote for estrogen...



   

                   

[ Grunts ]

is Frank.



   

                   

oh, l need some Frank.



   

                   

Help me, buddy.

Help me noW.



   

                   

This is supposed to be fun.



   

                   

l'm a professional.



   

                   

Lipstick. All right.



   

                   

Lipstick on a guy's collar ?

No, no, Women Will hate that.



   

                   

Lipstick on a guy's collar

that Won't rub off.



   

                   

No, that's even Worse.



   

                   

okay, okay, okay,

l gotta think like a broad.



   

                   

All right, l'm a broad.



   

                   

l see lipstick...

[ Sniffs ]



   

                   

on a dark-haired

Tahitian beauty,



   

                   

standing under a Waterfall,

Wearing nothing but a thong.



   

                   

Water cascading

doWn her back.



   

                   

l'm a lesbian.



   

                   

[ Scoffs ]

l gotta change the music.



   

                   

l Wonder. l Wonder.



   

                   

oh, Alex, thankyou.



   

                   

Ah, jackpot !



   

                   

oh, she's hot.



   

                   

Smooth, yeah, smooth.

oh, cool.



   

                   

WoW, mascara.

Here We go.



   

                   

[ Mumbles ]



   

                   

[ Sighs ]

Nice, thick lashes.



   

                   

oW ! oW ! Shit, that stings !

What the fu--



   

                   

okay, fiine. Well, l need

some anesthetic here.



   

                   

[ Exhales Deeply ]



   

                   

[ Gargles ]



   

                   

[ Burps ]

Beautiful.



   

                   

[ Sighs ]

okay. NoW...



   

                   

for the piece de resistance,

We have--



   

                   

We have the right leg.

Yes, excellent.



   

                   

And the hot, hot Wax.

Very hot Wax.



   

                   

Here We go.

[ Gasping ]



   

                   

Jeez ! ooh, that's hot.



   

                   

okay, test of manhood.

Here We go.



   

                   

okay, We passed.



   

                   

And next... We immediately apply

disposable cloth...



   

                   

over the Waxed... area.



   

                   

Straight ahead.



   

                   

Yes.



   

                   

Yeah... it feels

kinda nice, yeah.



   

                   

l don't knoW Why Women complain

about Waxing their legs.



   

                   

''ln one smooth motion,

yank the strip quickly...



   

                   

in the opposite direction

ofthe hair groWth.''



   

                   

No, no,

that Would be north.



   

                   

one, tWo, three.

[ Screams ]



   

                   

[ Gasping ]



   

                   

[ Scoffiing ]



   

                   

[Light Clangs]



   

                   

Women are insane.

Who Would do that more than once ?



   

                   

l don't knoW. Why Would

anybody even do the other leg ?



   

                   

Ah, yes,

that's right, girls.



   

                   

Wax it off

and cover it up.



   

                   

Yeah. Ally-oop !

ooh, Wait.



   

                   

oh, shit !

l guess this takes a little fiinesse.



   

                   

one doWn, tWo to go.

[ Chuckles ]



   

                   

[ Grunting ]



   

                   

okay. okay.



   

                   

okay.



   

                   

[ Clears Throat ]



   

                   

oh.



   

                   

Honey, you just lost

yourselffiive pounds.



   

                   

[ Chuckles ]

All right, Where's my Wonderbra ?



   

                   

oh.



   

                   

- [ Gasps ]

- Let's see Which end is up here.



   

                   

- Hi !

- What are you doing ?



   

                   

Exfoliating ?



   

                   

- Yo.

- You must be, um--



   

                   

Cameron, my boyfriend.

This is Nick.



   

                   

- Her father.

- That's nice nail polish you got.



   

                   

Yeah, l'm just doing a neW

research thing at Work, you knoW.



   

                   

- Get into the female psyche--

- Whatever.



   

                   

Yeah.



   

                   

l should probably

take off.



   

                   

- No, you don't have to.

- lt's cool. l'll see you later.



   

                   

- Bye.

- Bye.



   

                   

- l'llcallyou.

- Okay.



   

                   

Nice meeting you, eh ?



   

                   

Yeah.



   

                   

- Excuse me. Did you kiss that guy ?

- Where did you get this ?



   

                   

- Your zipper thing. You're kissing?

- You Went through my stuff !



   

                   

l needed some music.

lt Wasjust sitting there.



   

                   

What are you, allergic to listening?

You never listen When l talk.



   

                   

lf l'm stuck staying here, then

my stuff's gonna be around, okay ?



   

                   

ldon't wantyou tojust

go through everything.



   

                   

- l don't listen to you ?

- You thinkyou listen to me.



   

                   

- Yeah.

- You do ?



   

                   

What's my boyfriend's name ?



   

                   

Uh, it's--



   

                   

- Good night.

- No, no, Wait, come back.



   

                   

Dustin is his name.

Dustin, that's his name.



   

                   

Right ? No.

Don't slam the--



   

                   

C-Carson.



   

                   

Carmen. Carmine !

Carmine !



   

                   

- [DoorLocks]

- Carmichael !



   

                   

l can't remember a guy's name, they

fiigure you're not listening to them.



   

                   

[ Sighs ]



   

                   

What do Women Want ?



   

                   

l knoW it has three syllables.



   

                   

[ Hair Dryer Whirs ]



   

                   

Cameron.

His name is Cameron !



   

                   

Whoa !



   

                   

[ Panting ]



   

                   

oh,Jesus.

That's so dangerous.



   

                   

Ninety percent

ofall accidents happen--



   

                   

[Sirens Wailing]



   

                   

oh, What the hell

has he done noW ?



   

                   

l hope he's not dead.



   

                   

[ Groans ]

No, l'm fiine.



   

                   

[ Groans ]

l'm fiine, l think.



   

                   

Are you sure ?



   

                   

[ Shudders ]

No. Yes.



   

                   

[ Groaning ]



   

                   

Cleaner pores.

Thicker hair.



   

                   

Very Weird headache.

Really Weird.



   

                   

NoW l gotta clean up bras

and home pregnancy tests ?



   

                   

The man doesn't pay me enough

for the things l have to do.



   

                   

oh,Jesus,

he's Wearing panty hose ?



   

                   

NoW he's a cross-dresser ?



   

                   

l Wasjust experimenting With a feW

products from Work, all right ?



   

                   

- Did l say anything ?

- oh, God, it's  :   already.



   

                   

To sleep till  :  . He'd fiire

my ass if l Wasn't here to Wake him.



   

                   

WheW, are We

in a mood today.



   

                   

Same as every other day.



   

                   

Honey, make me a little bagel

with cream cheese.



   

                   

You knoW l can't think

on an empty stomach.



   

                   

Foryour information,

l'm not even hungry.



   

                   

Who said you Were ?



   

                   

- Mr. Marshall.

- Good morning, Flo.



   

                   

Let me get you

a cab, sir.



   

                   

Sure.



   

                   

- [ Whistles ]

- Thankyou, Flo.



   

                   

[ Thinking ]

You're Welcome, my little sWeet ass.



   

                   

What did you say ?



   

                   

Me ? Nothing.



   

                   

- You sure ?

- Yes, sir.



   

                   

[ GroWls To Herself]



   

                   

You knoW What ?

l think l'll Walk today.



   

                   

- l could use a little fresh air.

- Have a great day, sir...



   

                   

With your fiine ass

looking like Shaft !



   

                   

WheW ! l could just

ride that puppy !



   

                   

- [ Horn Honking ]

- [Man] Watch whereyou'regoing.



   

                   

- You okay, sir ?

- Fine. l'm fiine.



   

                   

Didlturn the coffeemakeroff?l

walkedover, but didlturn it off?



   

                   

lcan't remember. lsawthe light,

but didlturn theswitch off?



   

                   

-What ? What ?

-one kiss doesn't make me a lesbian.



   

                   

- Does it ?

- What ?



   

                   

- Hmm ?

- oh, sorry.



   

                   

Two slices oftoast,     calories,

plusa tab anda halfofbutter,



   

                   

Estrogen isgoodforthe heart

but badforthe breasts.



   

                   

- What ?

- My kid doesn't need Ritalin.



   

                   

- Get him to listen to What l say.

- Monsieur, l need to poop.



   

                   

[ Gasps ]

oh, boy !



   

                   

[ All Thinking At once ]



   

                   

- [ Elevator Bell Dings ]

- Aah !



   

                   

[ Screams ]



   

                   

oh, God,

he nearly killed me.



   

                   

Too badhe missed.



   

                   

- [ Beeping ]

- [ Door Buzzes ]



   

                   

- Good morning.

- Good mor--



   

                   

Don't look up. He'll make me

hear another disgustingjoke.



   

                   

He's such a schmuck.



   

                   

She thinks l'm a schmuck ?



   

                   

Whoa, lighten up

on that aftershave, buddy.



   

                   

Oh, what ? Oh, yeah,

likeyou'vegot theperfect body ?



   

                   

Jeez.



   

                   

- Hi, Mr. Marshall.

- No, no, don't say it.



   

                   

What ? l Was going to tell you

the Gillette budget's on your desk.



   

                   

And l Went out last night and

got you that Merlot that you Wanted.



   

                   

Here's

your credit card back.



   

                   

Thankyou.



   

                   

- You okay ?

- Me ? Yeah.



   

                   

Doyou realize that lhave

an lvyLeague education...



   

                   

andthat runningyourstupid

errandshasput me into therapy ?



   

                   

Take meseriouslyandgive me

some real work to do.



   

                   

Oh, yeah, lremember why.

Because lhave a vagina !



   

                   

- Aah !

- Anything else l can get foryou ?



   

                   

Oh, good, you're on time.



   

                   

- Morning.

- You look a little different.



   

                   

You knoW, l think

maybe it's his hair.



   

                   

- lt looks thicker, doesn't it ?

- Gimme your coat.



   

                   

- oh, oh, okay.

- Mmm, you smell good today.



   

                   

- NeW cologne ?

- No.



   

                   

Th-That's it ?

No other thoughts ?



   

                   

- What do you mean ?

- You feeling all right, doll ?



   

                   

[ Mumbling ]



   

                   

''Linens, linings,

loans, locks.''



   

                   

- [Mumbling]

- Hello, Nick ?



   

                   

Uh, Nick ?

We gotta go.



   

                   

What are you doing ?

lt's  :  .



   

                   

Can't go. Gotta fiind a doctor.

Need a cure. Can't go.



   

                   

- Defiinitely can't go.

- You sound like the guy from Shine.



   

                   

- What's Wrong With you ?

- l don't need a doctor.



   

                   

Maybe l need,

like, an exorcist.



   

                   

Under ''E''forexorcist.



   

                   

There are no exorcists

in the greater Chicago area.



   

                   

Let's pull it together and sell

some sensitive feminine shit, okay ?



   

                   

Sorry to interrupt.

Here you go.



   

                   

[ Panting ]



   

                   

By the Way, your hair looks

really good today, Mr. Marshall.



   

                   

[ Thinking ] And it's okay

you pay me minimum Wage...



   

                   

because l use the company phone

to call my boyfriend in lsrael...



   

                   

for an hour.



   

                   

Tell me you heard that.



   

                   

Your hair looks really good.

So What ?



   

                   

The-- The other thing !

What she Was thinking thing.



   

                   

l don't think she thinks too much.

She's not exactly a genius.



   

                   

l'll have you knoW she Went

to an lvy League school.



   

                   

- Doubt that.

- The thing about the boyfriend,



   

                   

calling him in lsrael,

you heard that, yes, no ?



   

                   

l didn't hear it

'cause she didn't say it.



   

                   

Pullit together. We'regonna

be late foroursororitymeeting.



   

                   

Morgan, in case l, like,

maybe die today--



   

                   

Can We Walk ? 'Cause in case

you live, l don't Wanna be late.



   

                   

Here's What happened,

just in case the coroner asks.



   

                   

l got drunk, and l tried on

all the products from the pink box.



   

                   

- You did not.

- l put on all the products--



   

                   

nail polish, panty hose,

everything.



   

                   

- You tried on the panty hose ?

- Yes, okay.



   

                   

AnyWay, l Was drying my hair,

and l fell over and tripped,



   

                   

fell into the bathtub

and electrocuted myself.



   

                   

l blacked out,

and When l Woke up...



   

                   

l could hear What every Woman

around me Was... thinking.



   

                   

- Uh-huh.

- Talking personal, private stuff.



   

                   

The stuffthat nobody is

supposed to hear, l hear that stuff.



   

                   

You knoW What l'm saying ?

l can hear What Women think.



   

                   

Can you ? Good, 'cause that's not

a talent guys have these days.



   

                   

You don't believe me.

You Want me to prove it ?



   

                   

-See thisattorneycoming toward us?

-Yeah.



   

                   

oh, she thinks

you're overpaid and gay.



   

                   

- What ?

- l hear What they're all thinking.



   

                   

lt's driving me crazy. Even

French poodles, l can hear them.



   

                   

So We're on the same page,

l need you to knoW you sound insane.



   

                   

You freaked out over losing

thejob, Which l understand.



   

                   

But ifyou tell anybody you can hear

the thoughts ofa French poodle--



   

                   

What ifljumpedout the window?

Jumpedthrough theplateglass.



   

                   

Would they notice ? Probably not

if l didn't get glass on anybody.



   

                   

That girl With the fruit is funny.

Suicidal, but she is funny.



   

                   

Nick, What girl

With the fruit ?



   

                   

- The--

- Huh ?



   

                   

Last one to arrive.

Wants me to knoW l'm not his boss.



   

                   

okay, you're a star.

l get the message.



   

                   

She thinks l'm late because l Want

her to knoW she's not my boss.



   

                   

- What is she talking about ?

- Put a lid on it. l'm begging you.



   

                   

ooh, l can't believe

l have butterflies in my stomach.



   

                   

Feels like

the fiirst day ofschool.



   

                   

Okay, so let'ssee

how we did.



   

                   

[Thinking]

Nobody wants togo first.



   

                   

Everyone'savoidingme,

except NickMarshall.



   

                   

Unbelievable. The only one

With good eye contact.



   

                   

At least he's lookingat my eyes

andnot down myblouse.



   

                   

- Nick, What did you come up With ?

- Me ?



   

                   

What did l come up With ?

[ Chuckles ]



   

                   

He's so Wired.



   

                   

Mostly...

[ Clears Throat ]



   

                   

l thought about

the moisturizing lipstick,



   

                   

never having Worn

lipstick myself.



   

                   

l tried to imagine What l'd Want

from a lipstick, if l Were a Woman.



   

                   

- oh, spare me.

- okay, he's trying to be honest.



   

                   

You knoW,

to be perfectly honest,



   

                   

l thought ofa Tahitian beauty,

bathing under a Waterfall.



   

                   

oy, l'm gonna die here

With these kinds of ideas.



   

                   

But, uh, you knoW, l'm

Working on it, and it's evolving.



   

                   

Anybody interested in an idea

involving the SWedish bikini team ?



   

                   

l do knoW them all

personally.



   

                   

- oh, What an idiot.

-Jerk, groW up already.



   

                   

- What apig.

- You are so foul.



   

                   

l should have asked

for more money. Gina ?



   

                   

l spent the night trying to fiigure

out hoW to sell Advil just to Women.



   

                   

You know what ?

Youshouldsellit to women like me.



   

                   

[Giggles]



   

                   

l take it every time

l need to fake a headache.



   

                   

Works like a charm.



   

                   

l-l got a great one.

ltjust came to me.



   

                   

- Do you mind if l interrupt, Dina ?

- Sure, go ahead.



   

                   

l hate that

you've seen me naked.



   

                   

[ Chuckles ]

All right.



   

                   

So, we're in a bedroom,

the lightsare out.



   

                   

There's a Woman in bed,

and she's taking an Advil.



   

                   

Her husband suggestively

rubs her back, and We say, ''Advil.



   

                   

''So mild and gentle,

you can take it...



   

                   

even When you're

faking a headache.''



   

                   

[ Laughter ]



   

                   

Woman turns to herhusbandandsays,

''Not tonight, lneedanAdvil. ''



   

                   

- He's back.

- [ Laughs ]



   

                   

What ? Come on. That doesn't

reach Women on a personal level ?



   

                   

- No.

- Women do that, don't they ?



   

                   

- ldon't.

- No ?



   

                   

Sue Cranston, you've done that,

haven't you ? Faked a headache to--



   

                   

No, Nick, l haven't.

Thanks for asking.



   

                   

No, Wait, Wait, Wait.

Be honest noW.



   

                   

l mean, you've been married

What, ten, tWelve years ?



   

                   

You've neverfakeda headache ?

lt doesn 't work like a charm ?



   

                   

No, Nick, l haven't.



   

                   

l mean, no, it doesn't,

okay ? Jeez.



   

                   

- [ Thinking ] What an asshole !

- l guess l'm off base here.



   

                   

What's good is you're looking at

Advil from a Woman's point ofvieW.



   

                   

Um, l don't think Advil

Will go for it,



   

                   

and l'm pretty sure every Woman

in America Will hate it.



   

                   

other than that,

l thought it Was great.



   

                   

You're on the right track.

Hang in there. Go ahead.



   

                   

Great antenna there, babe.

The poodle give you that one ?



   

                   

- What are you doing home early ?

- l have my fiirst migraine.



   

                   

This is hideous. My boyfriend

feeling me up in front of my father.



   

                   

Don't think anything. The outlook

Wasn't good for the Mudville Nine.



   

                   

- Thescore wasfourto two.

- oh, shit. Where's my bra ?



   

                   

- Where is it ?

- oh, God.



   

                   

oh, God !



   

                   

okay, look. Everybody

just needs to chill out here.



   

                   

There'll be no chilling.

Just get your stuff... and move on.



   

                   

Come on, man. Relax.



   

                   

- HoW old are you ?

- l just turned    .



   

                   

Well, she's    .

She Was     fiive years ago.



   

                   

You knoW What l'm saying,

stud ? NoW get out.



   

                   

Dad ! [ Thinking ] We're going

to the prom. Don't ruin it.



   

                   

- You're not going With this punk.

- HoW did you knoW about prom ?



   

                   

Look, l don't knoW.

Mom told me, all right ?



   

                   

lt's not gonna happen

because he's too old foryou.



   

                   

l knoW What boys Want, and he's not

getting it from my daughter. Door.



   

                   

Your daughter ?

Suddenly, l'm your daughter.



   

                   

- HoW am l related to this asshole ?

- Another one.



   

                   

- l Want Mom.

- Look, l'mjustgonna take off.



   

                   

- l'm realsorryabout this.

- Save it.



   

                   

That's mine.



   

                   

Where-- Where are you--



   

                   

[ Sighs ]



   

                   

Great day.



   

                   

[Thunderclap]



   

                   

Okay, l'm not losing

mymind.



   

                   

- [ Screams ]

- [Thunderclap]



   

                   

[Thunderclap]



   

                   

Come on !

Do your thing !



   

                   

Turn me into me again !



   

                   

[ Hair Dryer Whirring ]



   

                   

oh, good, l'm not dead.



   

                   

[ Panting ]

oh, please !



   

                   

Please, please, please.

Tell me l got rid of it.



   

                   

- [ Beeping ]

- Please be a Woman. Please.



   

                   

- For What city, please ?

- You couldn't do me a favor...



   

                   

and think ofyour favorite color

or TV program, could you ?



   

                   

For What city, please ?



   

                   

[ Sighs ]



   

                   

Flo ? Hey, Flo !



   

                   

- Flo ?

- [Siren Wailing]



   

                   

l can't believe this.



   

                   

l need a Woman.



   

                   

-Trythis one.

-Oh, llove this. This is fantastic.



   

                   

oh, it's my mother's birthday

next Week, so l need tWo gift sets.



   

                   

You've been agreat help.

lappreciate it.



   

                   

Do you have a Kleenex back there

so l can Wipe that off ?



   

                   

l'm sure she'lllike it.

lt's one ofourbestsellers.



   

                   

- Do l get a free gift With this ?

- Yes, youget a travelbag.



   

                   

Thankyou.

[ Chuckles ]



   

                   

Stop it. You'vegot the dress.

Treatyourselfto lipstick.



   

                   

- No, l have enough at home.

- You might as wellget one, right ?



   

                   

l have too many lipsticks. l have

piles ofthem. l don't need it.



   

                   

- l'llbuy it foryou.

- lfhe doesn 't answerin two rings,



   

                   

- l sWear to God !

- Hi, blue eyes.



   

                   

[ Women Thinking

Simultaneously ]



   

                   

[ Nick Screaming ]



   

                   

[ Buzzing ]



   

                   

- Dr., you may not remember me.

- Yes ?



   

                   

l'm Nick Marshall. l came here about

ten years ago With my ex-Wife, Gigi.



   

                   

- [ Thinking ] oh, Christ, not him.

- oh, good, you remember me.



   

                   

l'm sorry to barge in like this,

but l don't knoW Who to turn to.



   

                   

l'm afraid to go to Work.

l'm afraid of my door Woman.



   

                   

l'm-- l'm afraid

to get a cup ofcoffee.



   

                   

Mr. Marshall,

please sloW doWn. SloW doWn.



   

                   

Let me make sure l completely

understand What it is you're saying.



   

                   

[ Sighs ]

All right. All right.



   

                   

l hear What Women think.



   

                   

Yeah. You knoW,

Mr. Marshall,



   

                   

this kind of imaginary

displacement scenario...



   

                   

- l'm not imag--

- really isn 't mything.



   

                   

l do, hoWever, have a very good

friend over at University Hospital,



   

                   

who specializes in male menopause

andtestosterone depletion.



   

                   

She's fabulous. l think What l'll do

isjust give her a ring...



   

                   

andsendyou overthere.



   

                   

Why did l ansWer my door ? l Was so

into buying that lamp on eBay.



   

                   

- HoW much Was it going for ?

- HoW much Was What going for ?



   

                   

The lamp on eBay.



   

                   

oh, l see. That's good.

Very clever.



   

                   

- Dr. Skolnick, please.

- You don't believe me. Try another.



   

                   

Go on. Pick a number.

Give it a Whirl. Any number.



   

                   

okay. A number

betWeen one and--



   

                   

- A million. Why not ?

- One anda million.



   

                   

All right.



   

                   

Mm.



   

                   

      --   --   .



   

                   

Wanna make a decision here ?



   

                   

- Oy vay!

- oh, you can say that again.



   

                   

- l didn't say anything.

- Doesn't mean l didn't hear it.



   

                   

okay. okay. Let's say--

Let's say l do believe you.



   

                   

- Yeah.

- You can hear What Women think.



   

                   

Even though l'm a groWn

Woman of... [ Thinking ]    .



   

                   

-   .

- oh, my lips are sealed.



   

                   

Holy crap !

oh, forgive me.



   

                   

- That's all right.

- But this is phenomenal.



   

                   

- You can hear inside my head.

- Yes.



   

                   

Why Would you Want to get rid

ofsuch a brilliant gift ?



   

                   

Well, for starters,



   

                   

almost every Woman l knoW

thinks l'm an asshole.



   

                   

- What l thought When l met you.

- Doc, give me a break here.



   

                   

Mr. Marshall, you might

fiind this a little unorthodox,



   

                   

but Would you mind

aWfully if l smoked ?



   

                   

- No, no, l understand.

- Thankyou. Thankyou so much.



   

                   

[ Coughs ]



   

                   

Let's try to look at

the up side ofthis, shall We ?



   

                   

You knoW, Freud died at age   

still asking one question,



   

                   

''What do Women Want ?''



   

                   

Wouldn 't it bestrange and wonderful

ifyou were the one man on Earth...



   

                   

fiinally able to ansWer

that question ?



   

                   

Listen to me, Nick.

Something extraordinary...



   

                   

and l think miraculous

has happened to you.



   

                   

My advice is

you must learn from this.



   

                   

You knoW, there isn't

a single Woman that l treat...



   

                   

that doesn't Wish her man

understood her better.



   

                   

lf men are from Mars and Women are

from Venus and you speak Venusian,



   

                   

the worldcan beyours.



   

                   

l don't knoW hoW this

happened to you or Why,



   

                   

but you mayjust be

the luckiest man on Earth.



   

                   

lmagine thepossibilities.



   

                   

lfyou know

what women want,



   

                   

you can rule.



   

                   

[ No Audible Dialogue ]



   

                   

[ Thinking ] Hubba-hubba, here he

comes, looking aWfully good today.



   

                   

And l haven't had sex

in four months. okay, six.



   

                   

Why didltellhim to stop

askingme out ?l'm an idiot!



   

                   

- ldiot ! ldiot !

- [ Chuckling ]



   

                   

Hey, Nick, hoW's it going ?



   

                   

Lola, my love.

l can't take no for an ansWer.



   

                   

- About What ?

- About What ?



   

                   

[ Chuckles ]

About us.



   

                   

Just don't hurt me, Nick.

l've been hurt too many times.



   

                   

l knoW hoW hard it is

to go out With someone neW.



   

                   

l mean, there's alWays

that fear of,



   

                   

Well, getting hurt.



   

                   

- At least that's hoW l feel inside.

- You do, really ?



   

                   

- [ Sighs ] All the time.

- Me, too, all the time.



   

                   

Let'sjust take it sloW

and see hoW it goes.



   

                   

SloW is good.



   

                   

SloW is really good.



   

                   

- Yeah.

- Are you free tonight ?



   

                   

So, you don't think l'm gay ?

You're saying you never said that ?



   

                   

- l never said that.

- Doesn't mean you didn't think it.



   

                   

ls it the hair ? The highlights

happen to be natural.



   

                   

- Morgan, l have a meeting.

- You don't think l'm overpaid?



   

                   

- You never said that.

- l don't think l ever said that.



   

                   

okay.



   

                   

[ Thinking ]

Who has he been talking to ?



   

                   

- Morning.

- Morning.



   

                   

Well, then checkyourE-mail.

lsent it over--



   

                   

Hi, Annie.

HoW's the boyfriend in lsrael ?



   

                   

l Want to thankyou

for picking up that Wine.



   

                   

That's above and beyond.

l appreciate it so much. Thankyou.



   

                   

Uh, can l get you

a cup ofcoffee or, um,



   

                   

some water

orany kindofbeverage ?



   

                   

No, but thankyou. lf l'm thirsty,

l knoW Where the coffee room is.



   

                   

That's right, guys, don't help.

Just Walk right past me.



   

                   

Why don't you step on

my hands, you big--



   

                   

- Here you go. HoW you doing ?

- oh.



   

                   

oh, fiine.

Thankyou, Mr. Marshall.



   

                   

- You're Welcome, um--

- Erin.



   

                   

Erin. You be careful,

all right, Erin ?



   

                   

Yeah, sure.



   

                   

Heavy.



   

                   

What do you knoW ?

There is life on this planet.



   

                   

Breakfast Tuesdaysoundsgreat.

Absolutely.



   

                   

Thanks forthe info.

Andthanks forthe champagne.



   

                   

You too.

Okay, bye-bye.



   

                   

Set meeting, Nike,

Women's division.



   

                   

- Hi.

- Hi.



   

                   

Well, you've been here fiive minutes.

Looks like you've been here a year.



   

                   

oh, yeah. l'm compulsive.

lt's a problem.



   

                   

[Thinking] Why do lalways

feellike he's checkingme out ?



   

                   

l Wonder What he's got

up his sleeve.



   

                   

- Great photographs.

- No clue they're all Bourke-White.



   

                   

They're not all Margaret

Bourke-White, are they ?



   

                   

Yeah, they are.



   

                   

WoW. lt's

a beautiful collection.



   

                   

- Thanks. So hoW's it going ?

- Mmm.



   

                   

You knoW, l Was gonna

askyou the same thing.



   

                   

lt's starting sloW.



   

                   

- l'm evaluating staff, that's hard.

- oh, yeah.



   

                   

Yeah, right.



   

                   

Well, you knoW, l don't

Wanna beat around the bush.



   

                   

- What l'd like to propose--

- He's proposing so soon ?



   

                   

- oh, sorry. Sorry. [ Chuckles ]

- oh !



   

                   

- Uh, yes--

- Excuse me.



   

                   

- You got another one. WoW !

- [Darcy] Thanks.



   

                   

[ Chuckling ]

As l Was saying,



   

                   

lknownothingabout theproducts

you'regoing forpersonally,



   

                   

but l do believe

l can sell anything...



   

                   

once lknow

what the buyer'sneedsare.



   

                   

And What l'd really like,

With your kind indulgence ofcourse,



   

                   

is togo after

that reallybig fish.



   

                   

l mean, the one

you really Wanna land.



   

                   

l'll learn What l need to knoW,

and l'll reel them in for us.



   

                   

No, actually, l think

l'll reel them in for us.



   

                   

That is, unlessyou'regoingafter

something inparticularyourself.



   

                   

No. lt'sjust that there're several

big fiish out there at the moment.



   

                   

oh, yeah ?

Well, What's your biggest fiish ?



   

                   

To your mind,

Who's your Whale ?



   

                   

Um, Nike--

Women's division ?



   

                   

You heard

they Were shopping ?



   

                   

l got Wind of it.



   

                   

- Amazing. l heard no one kneW.

- You kneW.



   

                   

- l heard no one else kneW.

- lt's okay if l knoW What you knoW.



   

                   

- We're on thesame team. Besides,

- Yeah.



   

                   

l heard someone say once

tWo heads are better than one--



   

                   

- oh, you Were listening.

- More than you knoW.



   

                   

okay,

here's What l heard.



   

                   

Nike is shopping,

quietly.



   

                   

But ifthey make a change,

it's gonna happen fast.



   

                   

NoW, you knoW this is

a tough one for us to get.



   

                   

lt Would be a tough one for anybody

to get, but ifWe got it--



   

                   

- That's all We'd need.

- l hearyou.



   

                   

So, What do they Want

exactly ?



   

                   

They Wanna empoWer Women.



   

                   

- What ?

- l'm sorry.



   

                   

- That Won't Work.

- No, okay. l'm sorry.



   

                   

- l understand. Go on.

- They Wanna get in Women's heads...



   

                   

and reach them

on a very real level.



   

                   

Don't take this Wrong, but you got

jumpy talking about lipstick.



   

                   

- l knoW.

- Nike is hard-core Woman poWer.



   

                   

You sure you Wanna

go after this one ?



   

                   

You get 'em here in tWo Weeks,

l'll be ready.



   

                   

[ Chuckles ]

This guy is kind ofexciting.



   

                   

Hey !

Glad l caught you both.



   

                   

- You got a minute ?

- Sure.



   

                   

l Want you to look at these boards

for U.S. Air before they come by.



   

                   

- Right.

- lt feels likesomething'smissing.



   

                   

Hmm. l don't like

the graphics.



   

                   

Feels a bit parochial.



   

                   

Maybe it should be

in black and White.



   

                   

- What do you think, Nick ?

- l don't knoW Who you've had,



   

                   

but, l don't knoW,

it seems kind of--



   

                   

What's the Word ?

Parochial to me.



   

                   

Um, What do you think,

Darcy ?



   

                   

l totally agree,

especially about the graphics.



   

                   

They're parochial.

lt's so funny you just said that.



   

                   

Yeah ?



   

                   

Why don'tyouget them to

tryit in blackand white ?



   

                   

Might punch it up

a little.



   

                   

What ?

Did you say something ?



   

                   

No. l just sWear l Was

thinking the exact same thing.



   

                   

[ Weak Chuckle ]

Were you ?



   

                   

Black and White could really help.

Good idea, Nick.



   

                   

Good idea, Nick ?

Speak up. Quick.



   

                   

- Say something before he leaves.

- Uh, Dan ?



   

                   

Want me to lookat the boards ? Once

theyhave a stab, give me a buzz.



   

                   

- l Will. Thanks, buddy.

- Dan ?



   

                   

ln case they findNick's idea

too retro, which theymight--



   

                   

-oh, yeah.

-they may think it's old-fashioned--



   

                   

l'd be ready With some--

maybe a dot com kind ofthing ?



   

                   

Maybe there's something about

getting on-line at the airport.



   

                   

No, l think We're fiine, really.

Really, We're good.



   

                   

- l like Nick's fiix on this.

- Great.



   

                   

Hey, you Wanna come by later ? l got

a box of neW Cubans, just came in.



   

                   

- Great.

- Cool.



   

                   

You smoke cigars ?



   

                   

No.



   

                   

You knoW, your offiice

is looking really snazzy.



   

                   

- l love the red.

- Thanks.



   

                   

Mr. Marshall,

your daughter's on line one.



   

                   

- oh. l'm sorry. Would you mind--

- oh. Here you go.



   

                   

He has a daughter ?

Didn't picture that. HoW old ?



   

                   

She's    . She's staying With me

While her mom's aWay.



   

                   

- He's married ?

- AWay on her honeymoon.



   

                   

- oh.

- Alex, hi.



   

                   

Uh-huh. oh, sure, honey.

No, that's great.



   

                   

''Honey'' ?

Who are you trying to impress ?



   

                   

okay, look, l'm gonna go out

With my friends after school.



   

                   

Then can l bring them back to your

place, or Will you freak out again ?



   

                   

No, no, no, no.

No problem. Whateveryou Want.



   

                   

- What time are you gonna be home ?

- Wait for me !



   

                   

- l don't knoW. l gotta go.

-  :  's fiine.



   

                   

lloveyou too.

Bye, sweetie.



   

                   

Total shocker.

He's like a nice guy.



   

                   

- Sorry, duty calls.

- oh, ofcourse.



   

                   

- She's    ?

- Yeah. Got a boyfriend that's    .



   

                   

- And you hate that, right ?

- [ Groans ] Hate it.



   

                   

Yeah. Butshe digshim,

andhe's invitedherto theprom.



   

                   

- That's a big deal, l guess.

- The prom is about the dress.



   

                   

- You knowthat, right ? Oh, yeah.

- ls it ?



   

                   

once you got the dress handled,

it's all doWnhill from there.



   

                   

This feels like a date. Why did l

go into all that ? He needs to go.



   

                   

Well, l'm out of here.



   

                   

Do some research doWntoWn,

get inside Women's heads.



   

                   

- Well, ifyou need any help--

- l'll be picking your brain.



   

                   

- You got it.

- l'll take it.



   

                   

oh, God.

Candy.



   

                   

She Won't last a month.



   

                   

oh, l like that one, but it says

you can't Wear it ifyou have hips.



   

                   

-That one's cute.

-lt's loW-cut. l can't Wear loW-cut.



   

                   

- [NickKnockingAt Door]Alex ?

- lt's open.



   

                   

What ? Say something.



   

                   

Uh, hi.

l'm Alex's dad, Nick.



   

                   

- Hi.

- Hi.



   

                   

- Deadbeat.

- Mr. No-Food-in-the-House.



   

                   

[Girl#  Thinking]

Forgot herbirthday.



   

                   

Why is hejust standing there ?



   

                   

oh, l-l just Wanted

to let you knoW that l Was home...



   

                   

and that l got sort ofa date

later on tonight, so l'm going out.



   

                   

But l'll be home early. Hey,

Why don't you guys order a pizza ?



   

                   

There'snot a scrap offood

in thejoint.



   

                   

l also Wanted to knoW if maybe you

and l could go out on a date soon ?



   

                   

l'd like to take you shopping

for a prom dress.



   

                   

oh, that is so sWeet.



   

                   

l Wish my dad Would do

something like that.



   

                   

- [Girl#  Thinking]llove him.

- [Alex] ldon'tget it.



   

                   

First, you throW Cameron out.



   

                   

NoW you Wanna take me shopping

so l can go to the prom With him ?



   

                   

l overreacted, and l just Wanna make

up for it by taking you shopping.



   

                   

lmean, it'sapretty

important thing, you know ?



   

                   

They say it's all doWnhill

after the dress.



   

                   

He must be stoned.

Fine.



   

                   

l'll get the most expensive dress,

shoes, makeup. He can afford it.



   

                   

And What the hell.

Let's go crazy.



   

                   

While We're at it, We'll get you

neW makeup, shoes, the Works.



   

                   

- What do you say ?

- Fine, Whatever.



   

                   

Whatever meaning ''yes.''

Yes ?



   

                   

Yes.



   

                   

Great. Nice to have met you tWo.

l hope to see you again soon.



   

                   

- Defiinitely.

- Bye, Mr. Marshall.



   

                   

- Love the apartment.

- Great vieW.



   

                   

Thankyou.

oh, okay.



   

                   

l gotta tell ya, l'm not

usually like this on a fiirst date.



   

                   

lt'sjust... you've been

so amazing all night.



   

                   

- You've been so sensitive...

- oh, Well--



   

                   

and so understanding and--



   

                   

Hey.



   

                   

- You Wanna come up ?

- oh, yeah.



   

                   

l can't believe l asked him up.

Am l ready for him to come up ?



   

                   

lf l sleep With him, he'll think

l'm a slut and never call me again.



   

                   

or he'll call me all the time 'cause

he'll think he can get it Whenever.



   

                   

oh, What's the difference ?

He's so incredible !



   

                   

He reminds me of my sister.



   

                   

- So, What do you think ?

- Well, l--



    

                   

l'll only come up

ifyou really Want me to.



    

                   

l don't Want you to do anything

you're not ready for.



    

                   

- l can Wait.

- [ Squeals ]



    

                   

But-- Whoa !



    

                   

What's With the tongue ? l'm

gonna need the Heimlich maneuver.



    

                   

Thankyou.



    

                   

ooh.



    

                   

- ouch ! Right, they're attached.

- l'm sorry.



    

                   

oh !

NoW We're talkin'.



    

                   

Uh-huh.

oh.



    

                   

okay.

Lied about the grande.



    

                   

[ Groans ]



    

                   

Would you mind ifWe had

the lights on, maybe ?



    

                   

- No, you Want the light on ?

- Yeah, it might help.



    

                   

okay, if it'll help.



    

                   

God, l hope he's better

With the light on.



    

                   

He's so all over the place.

Just do it so l can start faking it.



    

                   

ls Britney Spears

on Leno tonight ?



    

                   

[ Panting ]



    

                   

- You okay ?

- Well--



    

                   

Yeah, l'm just fiine.



    

                   

What--

What happened ?



    

                   

Shaking--



    

                   

[ Groans ]



    

                   

okay. All right.



    

                   

NoW, let's pull this

together, buddy.



    

                   

l mean,

this is What We do.



    

                   

- You okay ?

- Yeah.



    

                   

Just regrouping.



    

                   

- [ Chuckling ]

- Lola ?



    

                   

- l can do this better.

- Wanna bet ?



    

                   

Yeah.



    

                   

[Train Passing By]



    

                   

[Moaning]



    

                   

Amazing !

Amazing.



    

                   

oh ! lt Was like...



    

                   

you Were more inside of me

than anybody ever !



    

                   

- [ Panting ]

- Well, thanks, doll.



    

                   

- l tried.

- No, no.



    

                   

- l mean, more inside my head.

- oh.



    

                   

Like, you kneW What l Wanted

and hoW l Wanted it.



    

                   

We connected in a Way

that Was beyond--



    

                   

beyond--



    

                   

oh, my heart !



    

                   

My heart is beating

so hard.



    

                   

[ Thinking ]

Who Would've thought ? SloW starter,



    

                   

then turns out to be

a genius in bed.



    

                   

Ladies and gentlemen,

Nick Marshall is a sex god !



    

                   

oh, yeah.



    

                   

Ha !

l love it.



    

                   

[ All Laughing ]



    

                   

okay, that Was a--

one more. Time for one more.



    

                   

okay, you knoW Why guys like

doing it in front ofthe mirror ?



    

                   

- Why ?

- objects may appear larger.



    

                   

- That's a good one. AnyWay.

- oh, that's a good one.



    

                   

l heard that in

the beauty shop this morning.



    

                   

- But seriously. Dee ?

- Huh ?



    

                   

That other thing We Were

talking about before.



    

                   

Come on. l mean, he can't

just ignore you all night,



    

                   

stay glued to the TV

like some zombie...



    

                   

and then expect you

to turn it on like a lightbulb.



    

                   

l mean, l Wouldn't

put up With that.



    

                   

l mean, you're either

interesting oryou're not.



    

                   

Ask him to decide.



    

                   

- Can l Write that doWn ?

- All right.



    

                   

l'm either interesting

or l'm not. He'll shit a brick.



    

                   

Hmm.

What if he says l'm not ?



    

                   

He Won't say

that you're not.



    

                   

Trust me.



    

                   

okay, l did it.



    

                   

l told Chaim

l Wasn't moving to lsrael.



    

                   

Yeah, good.

And ?



    

                   

l said What you said.

He can be a Writer anyWhere.



    

                   

lf l'm going to be in advertising,

l need to be here and not there.



    

                   

[ Whistles ]

And then he said ?



    

                   

- l don't knoW. lt Was in HebreW.

- ooh.



    

                   

But l don't think it Was,

''You got it. See you next Tuesday.''



    

                   

l don't knoW. l'd Wait it out.

He'll call you.



    

                   

l can't.

l better call him back.



    

                   

Be strong.

He Will call you.



    

                   

Well, girls, been nice chattin'.

l gotta get back to Work.



    

                   

[ All Chattering ]



    

                   

- Can l make you a sandWich ?

- No, l'm cool.



    

                   

Really.



    

                   

But thankyou, anyWay.

This Was fun.



    

                   

[ All ]

AWW !



    

                   

[ Thinking ]

Huh. This is good.



    

                   

More insightful

than l Would've thought.



    

                   

This line doesn't feel

exactly right.



    

                   

lfyou're thinking that line isn't

perfect, l agree. lt needs Work.



    

                   

There's something not exactly

right about it, isn't there ?



    

                   

l mean, it's not bad. lt's

insightful, actually. lt'sjust--



    

                   

Well, what doyou think

this woman's thinking ?



    

                   

Uh, Well, l--



    

                   

Let's see.



    

                   

Uh, she's thinking about

What she Wants out of life.



    

                   

What's she gonna accomplish ?

HoW's she gonna do all that ?



    

                   

Women, you knoW,

they think about that a lot.



    

                   

l mean,

surprisingly a lot.



    

                   

They Worry all the time

about everything.



    

                   

You're so right.

HoW do you knoW that ?



    

                   

Well, you knoW,

even l had a mother.



    

                   

[ Chuckles ]

Well--



    

                   

So maybe running gives her

time offfrom all ofthat.



    

                   

lt gives her something she can't

get anyplace else. Look at her.



    

                   

God.

l Want to be her.



    

                   

She looks so free,

doesn't she ?



    

                   

No one'sjudging her,

no boss to Worry about,



    

                   

no guys to Worry about,

no games to fiigure her Way through.



    

                   

l like that.

No games. That's good.



    

                   

That'd be nice in life,

Wouldn't it ?



    

                   

okay, can l just think

for one second ?



    

                   

- Take your time.

- okay.



    

                   

okay.



    

                   

No games.

HoW do l get that in ?



    

                   

She's running.

lt's early, it's quiet.



    

                   

Just the sound of her feet

on the asphalt.



    

                   

She likes to run alone.

No pressure, no stress.



    

                   

This is the one place

she can be herself.



    

                   

Look any Way she Wants,

dress, think any Way she Wants.



    

                   

Nogameplaying, no rules.

Games, sports, rules.



    

                   

Games, sports, rules.

Playing by the rules.



    

                   

Playinggames versusplaying--



    

                   

Playing by the rules.

Playing games versus playing--



    

                   

- Why are you nodding ?

- Because you're onto something.



    

                   

- Am l ?

- Aren't you ?



    

                   

Well, l Was thinking about

a play on Words.



    

                   

Something about games versus--



    

                   

l feel like

l Was onto something good.



    

                   

- Playinggames versusplaying--

- Sports ?



    

                   

Yes ! Thankyou.

Do you like any ofthis ?



    

                   

A lot. l like the idea that you can

be yourselfon the road.



    

                   

l do too.

Did l say that out loud ?



    

                   

[ Stammering ]

No, l Wasjust--



    

                   

'Cause l Was circling around

the exact same thing,



    

                   

-Which is great, We're on the same--

-Yeah.



    

                   

Sorry, l'm not thinking straight.

My glands may be sWollen.



    

                   

Maybe they should be more sWollen.

You're doing great. Nike. No games.



    

                   

Just sports.



    

                   

- oh.

- You should Write that doWn.



    

                   

All right.



    

                   

Did he come up With that,

or did l ?



    

                   

Boy, can l be--



    

                   

What ?



    

                   

Uh, Well,

can l be honest With you ?



    

                   

Please do.



    

                   

Before l came here, l heard you

Were a tough, chauvinistic prick.



    

                   

l didn't knoW you Were

gonna be that honest.



    

                   

- Sorry. l'm-- Sorry.

- No, that's all right.



    

                   

No, that's okay. You must have

looked so forward to meeting me.



    

                   

l Was dreading it. l had this Whole

other person built up in my mind.



    

                   

Well, since We're sharing,

l heard a feW things about you too.



    

                   

Yes, l'm sure. l'm the ''man-eating

bitch Darth Vader'' ofthe ad World.



    

                   

Verbatim.



    

                   

Really ? All right.

Well, nice to meet you.



    

                   

That's not Who l am at all.



    

                   

Just for the record,

l don't think that's Who you are.



    

                   

l don't.



    

                   

Thankyou.

l appreciate that.



    

                   

See, no games equals

embarrassing moment.



    

                   

Don't fall for a guy at Work.

Don't fall for a guy at Work.



    

                   

- Don't fallforaguyat work.

- Why ?



    

                   

Why What ?



    

                   

Why Won't-- Why don't l just

Work on these storyboards...



    

                   

and then bring them back around

to you tomorroW ifyou're free.



    

                   

l'm free.

Just call me anytime.



    

                   

l'm flirting.

What's wrong with me ?



    

                   

God ! l just looked at his penis.

l hope he didn't see me.



    

                   

oh, shit ! l just looked

at it again ! Stop it !



    

                   

- Are you all right ?

- Fine. l got something in my eye.



    

                   

Allright, um--

So, great.



    

                   

So tomorroW Will be--

That'll be great. l'll see you then.



    

                   

- Uh, good Work by the Way.

- You too.



    

                   

- You sure you're all right ?

- Yeah, l'm fiine.



    

                   

- Yeah.

- Good.



    

                   

l didn't think anyone else

Was still here.



    

                   

- l didn't knoW anyone Was here.

- What time is it ?



    

                   

lt's after    :  .



    

                   

- l didn't realize it Was so late.

- [ Thinking ] l feel so alone.



    

                   

Um-- l didn't catch that.

Sorry ?



    

                   

- l didn't realize hoW late it Was.

- And l'm glad you're here.



    

                   

l'm stuck.

lfeelso alone.



    

                   

- You Want a hand With this ?

- No, thanks. l'm okay.



    

                   

Yeah, l'm not buying it.

What's going on ?



    

                   

Well, l have an early meeting

tomorroW With Dan,



    

                   

andl wantedto make it

laterso lcouldbe moreprepared.



    

                   

But then you slipped in there

and took the only time he had left,



    

                   

Which left me With

 :    tomorroW morning.



    

                   

lt's fiine. l'm just not

as ready as l Wish l Was.



    

                   

- Sorry.

- You didn't do it on purpose.



    

                   

[Coughs]



    

                   

l just don't Want him

to be disappointed.



    

                   

Hey, Why don't We go through

some ofthese together ?



    

                   

- Really ?

- l insist.



    

                   

- Unless you're too tired.

- oh, no.



    

                   

- l'm not tired.

- Yeah, l can see that.



    

                   

lt'sjust so far beyond

tired at this point.



    

                   

l've basically stopped sleeping

ever since l took thisjob.



    

                   

- You have ?

- Yeah, it's Weird.



    

                   

l, um--

[ Thinking ] HoW do l say this ?



    

                   

You don't feel quite

like yourself here, do you ?



    

                   

No, l don't.

Not yet, anyWay.



    

                   

Boy.



    

                   

Plus, l'm mad

that l'm getting sick.



    

                   

l never, ever get sick.

ln fact,



    

                   

you don't have to sit

so close to me ifyou don't Want to.



    

                   

No, come here.

l'll brave it.



    

                   

So, Where do We kick off ?



    

                   

- Control-top panty hose ?

- okay.



    

                   

Personally, l think

they do the trick.



    

                   

You've Worn

control-top panty hose ?



    

                   

- Did you put a pair in the box ?

- Seriously ?



    

                   

oh, yeah.



    

                   

- You are full ofsurprises.

- Yeah.



    

                   

No, no, no. l mean that

as a compliment. l love that.



    

                   

- And hoW did you look in them ?

- ooh. Hot.



    

                   

My daughter and her boyfriend

Walked in, and l got 'em on With--



    

                   

And they said What When

they saW you in your panty hose ?



    

                   

lt Was the turquoise Wonderbra

they noticed. Then, the nail polish.



    

                   

[ lndistinct ]



    

                   

[Alex] The dress

youpickedout is totallyhideous.



    

                   

- l'm not coming out.

- lt can't be that bad. Come on out.



    

                   

l look like a nun--

an ugly nun.



    

                   

Why ? Because it's gray ?

Gray is the neW black.



    

                   

lf he says he likes it,

l'll die.



    

                   

okay, next.



    

                   

This, l love.



    

                   

Thankyou.

Next.



    

                   

l think this is the one.



    

                   

l like that--

No, l love that.



    

                   

okay, this is it.



    

                   

Let me take a look.



    

                   

Yes !

l look older.



    

                   

This is great.

oh, God, l need boobs.



    

                   

oh, l'll buy a padded bra

When he's not around.



    

                   

l can't believe this is What l'll be

Wearing the last night l'm a virgin.



    

                   

- or What l'll be taking off.

- [ Yells ]



    

                   

- Alex ?

- Hmm ?



    

                   

l Wanna talk to you about something

that's pretty important.



    

                   

- l've never talked to you about--

- oh, God.



    

                   

He's actually gonna try

to be a dad.



    

                   

This should be hilarious.



    

                   

l realize l haven't been

the perfect dad.



    

                   

[ Thinking ] Understatement ofthe

century. Can you pass the bread ?



    

                   

Yeah, sure, sure. But that does

not mean l don't have the right...



    

                   

to talk to you about--

about--



    

                   

- [ Clears Throat ]

- About ?



    

                   

Allright.

You're ayoung woman now,



    

                   

and you may be flirting

With the idea of-of--



    

                   

Having sex ?



    

                   

Um, can l get a lemonade,

please ?



    

                   

Well, you knoW, boys and girls

think very differently about sex.



    

                   

Myhunch isgirlsjust wantguys

to like 'em andhang out with 'em.



    

                   

Whereasguys--

Andnot allguys, allright ?



    

                   

But most guys, they pretty much

just Wanna have sex.



    

                   

okay, l'm--

What l'm trying to say here is,



    

                   

l don't Want you

to feel pressured...



    

                   

- becauseyourboyfriend's older.

- Please. Save it.



    

                   

Mom hadthis talk with me

when l was, like,    .



    

                   

You're supposed to have sex When

you're in love and it's special.



    

                   

- lknoweverything.

- [ Coughs ]



    

                   

And Mom knoWs me for real

and knoWs my friends and Cameron,



    

                   

so let's leave the parental

talks up to her, okay ?



    

                   

- l promised Cameron l'd do it.

- oh, jeez.



    

                   

And also, let's not make me

part ofthis Nick makeover...



    

                   

or Whatever this neW thing

you're into is, okay ?



    

                   

- What neW thing ?

- What neW thing ?



    

                   

This ridiculous neW guy

you're trying to be.



    

                   

CloWning around With me ?

Asking ifWe can make a salad ?



    

                   

Watch Friends together ?



    

                   

l mean, it's nuts

after     years of no relating.



    

                   

l mean, come on.



    

                   

Who are you to talk about

relationships anyWay ?



    

                   

You never had a real relationship

With anyone in your entire life.



    

                   

Look, l'm supposed

to meet my friends.



    

                   

- So l'm gonna go, okay ?

- Sure.



    

                   

Thanks for the dress.



    

                   

[Woman Thinking]

She didn 't even finish herlunch.



    

                   

Johnny-come-lately,

givingheradvice ?



    

                   

- Oh, teenagers.

- l think the talk Worked.



    

                   

- She's totally right.

- Move on, dude. lt's over.



    

                   

[ Groans ]

Please.



    

                   

NoW you've seen hoW

the cake is assembled.



    

                   

The next time you admire a Wedding

cake, you'll be able to appreciate--



    

                   

WoW.

lt looks so gorgeous.



    

                   

- [ Announcer ] Fit, vibrant hair.

- oh.



    

                   

l hated being overweight. l alWays

Wanted to be thin and pretty...



    

                   

and Wear cute little clothes.



    

                   

lt built andit built,

andmyhealth deteriorated.



    

                   

Andlcouldn 't walk

andlcouldn 'tstand...



    

                   

to even stand up at the park for

ten minutes While my kids played.



    

                   

ltriedsitting on theswings, and

the chains cut myhipsandit hurt.



    

                   

Andlcouldn 't--

lcouldn 't run andlcouldn 't move.



    

                   

And l Was tired

and l Wanted to be a good mom.



    

                   

[ Sobbing ]



    

                   

- What the hell's Wrong With me ?

- [Telephone Ringing]



    

                   

- Hello ?

- [ Thinking ] What am l doing ?



    

                   

- [TVShuts Off]

- Darcy ?



    

                   

HoW did you knoW it Was me ?

l didn't say anything.



    

                   

l, uh, just sensed it.



    

                   

Shit. l'm such an idiot.

l didn't think he'd be there.



    

                   

- Excuse me ?

- l didn't mean to really call you.



    

                   

l had your number here,

and l Was thinking ofyou.



    

                   

Thinking ofcalling you.



    

                   

obviously,

l did call you.



    

                   

oh, no, that's all right.

l, uh--



    

                   

l Was thinking about you too.



    

                   

Well, here's to another

great idea.



    

                   

- What, ''Let's meet for a drink'' ?

- Yes.



    

                   

- Yeah ?

- Exactly What l Wanted to say.



    

                   

Sometimes l think

you're a bit ofa mind reader.



    

                   

But l don't have to be

a mind reader With you.



    

                   

- Hmm.

- You alWays say What you think.



    

                   

- l knoW. lt's a curse.

- What--



    

                   

- Are you kidding ?

lt's a relief-- an enormous relief.



    

                   

Do you knoW hoW rare that is

to actually say What you think ?



    

                   

Do you have any idea hoW rare it is

for someone to actually like that ?



    

                   

Trust me, this has not been

a great thing in my life.



    

                   

My ex-husband didn't love me.

Let'sjust put it that Way.



    

                   

He didn't love you ?



    

                   

Did l just say that ?



    

                   

oh, God !

[ Laughs ]



    

                   

Um, l meant to say ''it.''

He didn't love it--



    

                   

that l spoke my mind.



    

                   

lfyou Wanna knoW the truth,

l'm not sure he did really love me.



    

                   

- ooh.

- There's a conversation starter.



    

                   

God. A smart person Would

just get so very drunk noW.



    

                   

HoW long

Were you married ?



    

                   

A little less than a year.



    

                   

l've been divorced about nine

months noW. We Worked together.



    

                   

- You knoW that, right ?

- oh, yeah. l kneW that.



    

                   

- l heard it.

- Hmm.



    

                   

- What Was that like ?

- lt Was great in the beginning.



    

                   

But it changed.

lt became competitive.



    

                   

Suddenly, the better l did,

the Worse We did.



    

                   

The price l pay

for being me.



    

                   

- l knoW that noW. No, truly.

- [ Chuckles ]



    

                   

- oh.

- No, no, it's true.



    

                   

Do you Wanna knoW

all this about me ?



    

                   

Keep going.



    

                   

Well, that's Why l needed

to get out there on my oWn,



    

                   

as scary as it Was.



    

                   

l mean, not scary,

but, um--



    

                   

Well, yeah,

l Was kind ofscared.



    

                   

- Why ?

- l don't knoW.



    

                   

l guess l Wasn't sure

l could do thejob.



    

                   

l mean,

l thought l could do it,



    

                   

but l'm fiinding Sloane-Curtis

a tougher place than l thought.



    

                   

l'm sorry.



    

                   

- l knoW you Were up for myjob.

- No.



    

                   

- l'm sorry l'm the one that got it.

- l'm-l'm not. l'm not.



    

                   

- l've learned a lot from you.

- Like What ?



    

                   

Like What ? For starters,

you really love What you do.



    

                   

- You really love What you do.

- Not as much as you do.



    

                   

HoW can you say that ?

You're so great at it.



    

                   

You're so great at it.



    

                   

l think Dan's even Wondering

Why he hired me. Really.



    

                   

l think the bloom

is defiinitely offthe rose.



    

                   

You Wanna hear something

really great ?



    

                   

Yeah.



    

                   

l just closed escroW on

my fiirst apartment ever.



    

                   

Finally, l oWn my oWn place.



    

                   

- What? l Wish l Was a mind reader.

- No.



    

                   

l Wasjust thinking...



    

                   

hoW men like me

can get so screWed up.



    

                   

l don't think

there are men like you.



    

                   

lfWe kissed,

Would it ruin everything ?



    

                   

Listen to me.



    

                   

l think...



    

                   

you are one of

the great Women.



    

                   

l really do.



    

                   

l'm sorry.



    

                   

But l just meant to say

thankyou.



    

                   

l'm so sorry.



    

                   

Well, l, uh,

guess l'll see you...



    

                   

in, let's see,

three and a half hours.



    

                   

Nick, may l just say...



    

                   

you are an exceptionally

great kisser.



    

                   

No, l mean

really, really great.



    

                   

Well, l haven't had

this much fun making out since--



    

                   

l've never had

this much fun making out.



    

                   

Me either.



    

                   

- Don't let this get Weird at Work ?

- No.



    

                   

We have nothing

to be embarrassed about.



    

                   

We made out.

You and l made out.



    

                   

- And if l may, it Was--

- Sexy as hell.



    

                   

God. That'sjust What

l Was about to say.



    

                   

But l think l said it fiirst,

l think.



    

                   

- oh, no, you did.

- oh.



    

                   

Um, Well,

all right, then.



    

                   

oh, l'm a groWn Woman.

Just say it.



    

                   

Do you Want to come back

to my place ?



    

                   

Say it !

Do you Want to come--



    

                   

Good night, Darcy.



    

                   

Good night.



    

                   

Good night.



    

                   

What am l doing ?



    

                   

Lola.



    

                   

lt's okay. okay.

Here he comes.



    

                   

- [Lola Muttering, lndistinct]

- Lola ?



    

                   

l knoW l haven't

heard from you.



    

                   

Lola, hoW long

have you been out here ?



    

                   

Just a feW... hours.



    

                   

Nick, you said that

you Wouldn't hurt me.



    

                   

And then you slept With me, and then

you didn't call me for six days.



    

                   

So that, in the World of me,

that's torture.



    

                   

l mean, We have this totally

unbelievable, life-altering sex,



    

                   

and then

you just disappear.



    

                   

l mean, you-you-you

stopped drinking coffee !



    

                   

Lola, l'm so sorry.



    

                   

lt's okay.



    

                   

lt's okay, because

l fiigured out your little secret.



    

                   

- You did ?

- lt's so obvious.



    

                   

HoW else Would you knoW

the things that you knoW ?



    

                   

- lt Wasn't obvious to anybody else.

- Nick, come on.



    

                   

You're so sensitive.

You're so aWare of my feelings.



    

                   

You're so tuned in.



    

                   

You talk to me like a Woman,

you think like a Woman.



    

                   

Nick ! Come on ! Admit it.

You're totally and completely gay.



    

                   

- l am ?

- You're not ?



    

                   

oh ! l mean, ifyou're not,

you gotta tell me.



    

                   

Basedon the othernight--

Justput me out ofmymisery.



    

                   

Are you or aren't you ?



    

                   

Sayyou're gay. Then l'm not nuts.

l'm not undesirable.



    

                   

Not rejected by another guy !

Say it ! Say you're gay ! Admit it !



    

                   

okay.



    

                   

l'm gay.



    

                   

HoW gay ?



    

                   

oh !

l'm as gay as it gets.



    

                   

You're gonna make some guy

very happy someday.



    

                   

oh, from your lips.



    

                   

God, l hate that

l'm crying.



    

                   

Well, look it.



    

                   

lfthings should ever change

in that department--



    

                   

- You'll be the fiirst to knoW.

- You promise ?



    

                   

oh, yeah, l promise.

Come here.



    

                   

oh, boy.



    

                   

-lt Was very nice meeting you, Nick.

-And you.



    

                   

Thanks for pep talk, yes ?



    

                   

You tWojust

take care ofeach other.



    

                   

- And thanks for the yarmulke.

- oh, no problem.



    

                   

- You Wear it Well, yes ?

- Happy trails, kids.



    

                   

- lsn't he great ?

- Darcy !



    

                   

l need to talk to you.



    

                   

Uh-oh, look at him.

l kneW it. He is Weird about it.



    

                   

This is not about last night.

lt's about the Nike meeting.



    

                   

And l honestly believe

in my gut...



    

                   

- that you should make the pitch.

- oh, God.



    

                   

-l guilted you into this last night.

-No, no.



    

                   

- lt Would be better ifyou did it.

- No, no, no.



    

                   

This is your baby.

You've gotta do it.



    

                   

l gotta go meet and greet

these folks. l'll see you in there.



    

                   

- lt's not my baby.

- Yes, it is.



    

                   

l predict no one Will even knoW l'm

gone until the fiiles start to build.



    

                   

lt could be days.



    

                   

And then someone

Will fiinally ask,



    

                   

''Where's the geek in the glasses

Who carries all the fiiles ?''



    

                   

Do either ofyou tWo knoW What

the story is on this Erin girl ?



    

                   

- Miss Lonely Hearts ? Who knoWs ?

- Yeah.



    

                   

ooh, l knoW.

She's been here tWo years.



    

                   

She triedto be a copywriter

butgot turneddown.



    

                   

- So she got stuck as a messenger.

- What fool turned her doWn ?



    

                   

You did, sire.



    

                   

Well, did l ever

meet With her at least ?



    

                   

l don't think so. As l recall,

you told me to ''bloW her off.''



    

                   

Well, l Wanna meet

With her noW.



    

                   

The kid's got something.

She's kind offunny.



    

                   

This is your lucky day. l just saW

the Nike group get offthe elevator.



    

                   

All Women. Your specialty.

Come on. l'll Walkyou up.



    

                   

l hate What l'm doing to Darcy.

l hate it !



    

                   

l'm gonna Write her

a long letter, confess everything.



    

                   

- You're doing Darcy ? Since When ?

- No !



    

                   

l said l hate What

l'm doing to Darcy.



    

                   

- Men are stupider. lt's true.

- Will you stop it ?



    

                   

- They are.

- ''They'' ? Are you a Woman noW ?



    

                   

oh, l Wish. A Woman Wouldn't have

screWed over the Woman she loved.



    

                   

No, they don't think that Way.

And another thing.



    

                   

- This thing about penis envy.

- Yeah.



    

                   

Not true. No.

They don't envy it.



    

                   

Halfof'em

don't even like it.



    

                   

You knoW Who has

penis envy ? We do.



    

                   

That's Why We cheat

and screW up and lie,



    

                   

because We're all obsessed

With our oWn equipment.



    

                   

- You ready ? okay.

- Yeah.



    

                   

Thanks.



    

                   

[Nick] You don'tstandin front

ofa mirrorbefore a run...



    

                   

and wonder what the road

willthink ofyouroutfit.



    

                   

You don't have to listen to its

jokes and pretend they're funny.



    

                   

lt wouldnot be easierto run

ifyou dressedsexier.



    

                   

The road doesn't notice

ifyou're not Wearing lipstick.



    

                   

lt doesnot care

howoldyou are.



    

                   

You do not feel

uncomfortable...



    

                   

because you make more money

than the road.



    

                   

Andyou can callon the road

wheneveryou feellike it,



    

                   

whetherit'sbeen a day...



    

                   

or even a couple of hours

since your last date.



    

                   

The only thing

the road cares about...



    

                   

is thatyoupay it a visit

once in a while.



    

                   

Nike.

Nogames.



    

                   

Just sports.



    

                   

- [Woman Thinking]He nailedit.

- They hit a home run.



    

                   

[Woman #  Thinking]

Where do we sign ?



    

                   

Why are you not the happiest guy

in Chicago right noW ?



    

                   

You just did so great.



    

                   

No, no, l didn't do so great.

We did so--



    

                   

No, actually,

you did so great.



    

                   

- You.

- You, me.



    

                   

We did great !



    

                   

Will you come With me someplace ?

l Wanna shoW you something.



    

                   

- l have something l need to fiinish.

- Please ?



    

                   

Please.



    

                   

okay.

Here you go.



    

                   

- Come With me.

- All right.



    

                   

-Should l close my eyes or anything?

-No.



    

                   

So, you see those top

tWo floors right there ?



    

                   

l do.



    

                   

- All mine.

- WoW.



    

                   

Come here.



    

                   

So this is my--



    

                   

living room.



    

                   

lt's beautiful.



    

                   

What are you thinking ?



    

                   

You've got that look

you have sometimes.



    

                   

Yeah ? No. l Wasjust Wondering

When you get to move in.



    

                   

Well, they said

tWo Weeks, so--



    

                   

okay.

This is the dining room.



    

                   

- The fiireplace Works. Come here.

- WoW.



    

                   

l can see elegant parties in here.

Waiters With caviar,



    

                   

- you in a beautiful goWn.

- You can see all that ?



    

                   

Maybe you're naked and l'm the only

guest, but it'd still be elegant.



    

                   

okay.

So this is upstairs.



    

                   

There's a second bedroom

or a future offiice or Whatever.



    

                   

Your boudoir comes With

pretty decent music.



    

                   

lt does.



    

                   

Where is that coming from ?



    

                   

Let's turn up the volume.



    

                   

So, Where's your bed going ?



    

                   

Uh, right... here.



    

                   

So, ifyou had a bed,



    

                   

We'd be dancing on it.



    

                   

l like it here.



    

                   

l like it here too.



    

                   

No. l mean,

l like it here.



    

                   

oh.



    

                   

[ThunderRumbling]



    

                   

[Dan]Believe me, we're

as excitedasyou are.



    

                   

- Dan ? l gotta talk to you.

- Yeah ?



    

                   

He'll be there. Bye. l gotta

talk to you too. That Was Nike.



    

                   

They're gonna announce to the trades

that We Won the account.



    

                   

l gotta hand it to you. You saved

my ass. You saved the company's ass.



    

                   

Actually, Dan, l had very little

to do With saving anybody's ass.



    

                   

lt's Darcy you should be thanking,

that's What l Want to talk about.



    

                   

Darcy ? Please. l Was there.

The girl didn't open her mouth.



    

                   

Look, l'm a big enough man

to admit When l screW up.



    

                   

llookedat the marketplace

andlpanicked.



    

                   

Nick, forgive me.

l Want you to step in here.



    

                   

No, no, no, no. Dan, you did

the right thing When you hired her.



    

                   

l mean, she is the best creative

director l have ever seen, bar none.



    

                   

- This isn't about-- She's adorable.

- oh, yeah, she is.



    

                   

- But this isn't about that ?

- No, no. Not like that. No, no.



    

                   

Please. Look.



    

                   

l've been doing

a lot of listening lately.



    

                   

And l've decided...

l need to take a leave ofabsence.



    

                   

l need to get aWay from here

and get some perspective on things.



    

                   

What are you, nuts ? What is this ?

What do you mean ?



    

                   

This is the biggest account

this company has ever landed.



    

                   

Do you Want me to have

nobody running the shop ?



    

                   

What are you talking about ?

Darcy's here.



    

                   

For somebody Who listens a lot,

you don't hear so Well.



    

                   

l had a meeting With her today.

l sat her doWn.



    

                   

- We had a talk.

- oh, Dan ! You didn't.



    

                   

- Tell me you didn't fiire her.

- She didn't even put up a fiight.



    

                   

- oh, Dan, no !

- Hey, she's gone, pal.



    

                   

No, no. lt's not too late.

Look, call her.



    

                   

Tell heryou need her back,

you made a mistake. Hire her back.



    

                   

- Hey, calm doWn. l can't do that.

- Why ?



    

                   

Because l talked to the board and l

told them l don't need her anymore.



    

                   

- oh !

- They offered her a settlement.



    

                   

Besides, Nike says they Want you.

You're What they bought.



    

                   

- [ Groans ]

- l got a delivery-- Can l--



    

                   

Would you come out for one second ?

Let me tell you something.



    

                   

Myjob is to deliveryou.



    

                   

Dan, Nike bought an idea.

lt Wasn't even mine.



    

                   

Every good idea that they loved

yesterday came from her.



    

                   

And ifyou don't get Darcy McGuire

back in here, and l mean pronto,



    

                   

the board is gonna be

paying you your settlement.



    

                   

This is all about

saving your ass, right ?



    

                   

Save it.



    

                   

Annie, get a hold of Darcy's address

and number as quick as possible.



    

                   

- Yeah, sure.

- Where's the girl in glasses ?



    

                   

Erin ? l don't think

she's in today.



    

                   

- Did she call in sick ?

- l don't think so. Didn't shoW up.



    

                   

oh, Where does she live ?



    

                   

-Does anyone knoW Where Erin lives ?

-[Man] Who's Erin ?



    

                   

And then someone

Will fiinally ask,



    

                   

''Where's the geek in the glasses

Who carries all the fiiles ?''



    

                   

[ Whistling ]



    

                   

[ Cell Phone Ringing ]



    

                   

Hey. Yeah.

Did you get a hold of Darcy ?



    

                   

No ? Keep trying. And When you get

a hold of her, tell her to stay put.



    

                   

l'm coming right over. l just have

to make a little stop on the Way.



    

                   

Do you knoW Where this is ?



    

                   

DoWn the alley.



    

                   

Just doWn the alley.



    

                   

Thanks.



    

                   

- Come on, Erin. Be there. Please--

- [Cat Meows]



    

                   

Erin ?



    

                   

Hello ?



    

                   

[Cat Meows]



    

                   

No, no.



    

                   

Dear Mom--

[ Continues, lndistinct ]



    

                   

- [ Yells ]

- [ Screams ]



    

                   

Mr. Marshall !

Mr. Marshall ?



    

                   

Yes, Erin.

Yes, it's me.



    

                   

- [ Panting ]

- l'm sorry.



    

                   

l really did not mean

to scare you. okay ?



    

                   

l just Wanted to come

and see hoW you are.



    

                   

HoW are you ?



    

                   

Mr. Marshall, ifyou're here because

l didn't shoW up today, l'm sorry.



    

                   

l Wasjust about to call.

l sWear.



    

                   

No, l'm not here because

you didn't shoW up for Work.



    

                   

But l'm here--

Well, l--



    

                   

l bet you're Wondering

Why l am here, huh ?



    

                   

As a matter offact,

l Wasjust thinking that.



    

                   

l Was thinking, ''Why is Mr. Marshall

here in my bedroom ?''



    

                   

You Were...

thinking thatjust noW ?



    

                   

Yeah, in my head.



    

                   

l must have Water

in my ears or something.



    

                   

But you're, you knoW,

not thinking anything noW, are you ?



    

                   

l'm thinking a million things.



    

                   

Really ?



    

                   

Because, you knoW,

usually l can, uh--



    

                   

l can, uh--



    

                   

You are thinking something

right this minute ?



    

                   

Mr. Marshall, l am thinking

that you are crazier than l am.



    

                   

l think--



    

                   

l think l lost--



    

                   

lt's gone.



    

                   

l'm back.



    

                   

- l'm back.

- Mr. Marshall ?



    

                   

Yeah ?



    

                   

l'm sorry. ls there something

l can maybe do foryou ?



    

                   

No.



    

                   

No, Erin, uh--



    

                   

Actually, l came here to see if

l could do something foryou.



    

                   

- For me ?

- Yeah.



    

                   

See, the truth is--



    

                   

The truth--



    

                   

Erin, the truth is,



    

                   

l'm glad l got here before you

did anything to hurt yourself.



    

                   

What makes you think that

l Would, uh,



    

                   

do something

to hurt myself?



    

                   

l just sensed it.



    

                   

Really ?



    

                   

You could sense that ?



    

                   

Well, that's not--

That's not good.



    

                   

[Sobbing]



    

                   

Yeah. But the real reason

l'm here is because--



    

                   

Well, here's the thing. The real

reason l'm here is because--



    

                   

As you knoW

We have the Nike account,



    

                   

and We have a job opening

in our team.



    

                   

AndDarcyMcGuire andl,

we werejust discussing--



    

                   

really spitballing on Who could be

great enough to fiill that void.



    

                   

Suddenly, your name popped

into my head, and l remembered...



    

                   

that you once applied

for a job as a copyWriter.



    

                   

lthought l'dcome down here and

see ifyou werestillinterested.



    

                   

Didn't you try and meet With me

a While back ?



    

                   

Yeah, l tried, but you Were

unavailable, and then out oftoWn--



    

                   

Well, noW l'm available.



    

                   

And as you can plainly see

l'm in toWn,



    

                   

so l'm here

to take that meeting...



    

                   

ifyou're available.



    

                   

l'm available.



    

                   

l'm unbelievably available.



    

                   

[ Buzzing ]



    

                   

[Dialing]



    

                   

[ Ringing ]



    

                   

[Darcy OnAnswering Machine]

Hi, this isDarcyMcGuire.



    

                   

l'm not home right now,

soplease leave a message.



    

                   

- l'llget backassoon aslcan.

- [Beeps]



    

                   

Darcy ?

Hi, Darcy, it's Nick.



    

                   

Uh, l'm standing right outside

yourplace here.



    

                   

lsure wish lcouldfindyou,

get a holdofyou.



    

                   

Areyou allright ?

lhopeso.



    

                   

AnyWay, call me

When you get this.



    

                   

l'm on my cell.

Triple fiive,   - - - .



    

                   

l really need to talk to you.



    

                   

Uh--



    

                   

Just making sure

you're not there.



    

                   

You're not, right ?

No, l didn't think so.



    

                   

All right, so call me, please.

Please.



    

                   

Bye.



    

                   

[CellPhone Ringing]



    

                   

- Darcy ?

- [ Gigi ] No, it's me.



    

                   

Gigi ? Uh--

ls everything all right ?



    

                   

- Are you back in toWn already ?

- No, not until tomorroW.



    

                   

Alex called me three times

from a pay phone really upset.



    

                   

Then We got disconnected. What's

the matter ? lsn't she at the prom ?



    

                   

[ Sighs ]

The prom.



    

                   

Excuse me. Do you knoW

Where Alex Marshall is ?



    

                   

Little tenth grader ?

BroWn hair ? About this high ?



    

                   

l saW her in the ladies' room.

She's been there for, like, an hour.



    

                   

Alex, are you in here ?



    

                   

[AlexSobbing]



    

                   

Alex, it's me.



    

                   

[Scoffs]

What areyou doinghere ?



    

                   

oh, honey, l just--



    

                   

You knoW, l can't believe

that l screWed up.



    

                   

l Wasn't there When

you left for the prom.



    

                   

Yeah, well, that'snot whyl'm

in here, soyou canjustgo, okay ?



    

                   

oh, boy, l feel aWful.

Are you okay ? l mean, l--



    

                   

Come on out. Let me see

hoW you look, at least.



    

                   

- Come on.

- [Sobbing]llooklike crap !



    

                   

lalreadytookmyhairout

andeverything.



    

                   

So, you knoW,

What happened ?



    

                   

Well, ifltoldyou,

you'djust freak out, so--



    

                   

What have you got to lose ?

Try me.



    

                   

okay.



    

                   

Cameron and his friends,

they had this big plan.



    

                   

They rentedthishotelroom

and-and--



    

                   

lt Was like a suite.



    

                   

Basically, l promised him

that l Was gonna--



    

                   

lcan't believe l'mgonna

saythis toyou. [Sniffles]



    

                   

l promised him that

l Was gonna...



    

                   

sleep With him

after the prom.



    

                   

And like an hour ago,



    

                   

We Were on the dance floor

and l said,



    

                   

''l'm sorry, Cameron.

You knoW, l'm just not ready.''



    

                   

Good.

Good girl.



    

                   

- Dad, come on !

- l'm sorry, l'm sorry. Go on.



    

                   

Then he goes, ''Well, the limo,

the room and the tux,



    

                   

it allcost me    bucks. ''



    

                   

And l said,

''l'm sorry. l'm just not--''



    

                   

And he cuts me off

and he says,



    

                   

''l never should've asked a sophomore

to the prom. What a Waste.''



    

                   

Then two seconds later,



    

                   

he goes and meets up

With his old girlfriend...



    

                   

andstartsmaking out

with her.



    

                   

l mean, this disgusting slut

With a tongue ring.



    

                   

Andthen they were

laughingand--



    

                   

l just can't

go out there ever.



    

                   

- Oh, honey, l'm soproudofyou.

- Dad !



    

                   

- What areyou doing ?

- l'm sorry. l'm-l'm sorry.



    

                   

But l am.

And believe it or not,



    

                   

l knoW What it's like

to be a Woman.



    

                   

lmean, it'snot

as easyasit looks.



    

                   

You stood up foryourself. You knoW

hoW ahead ofthe game you are ?



    

                   

AnyWay, a guy that treats you like

that and talks to you like that,



    

                   

- he'snot--

- Worth my time. Yes, l knoW.



    

                   

- lt's true. He's not.

- He'sagameplayer, lhate that.



    

                   

You are so much smarter

than me.



    

                   

And look at you.



    

                   

That cloWn made out With a girl

With a tongue ring overyou ?



    

                   

Honey...



    

                   

you look beautiful.



    

                   

Thanks.



    

                   

Take me home, Dad.



    

                   

What am l doing ?

She's not in the refrigerator.



    

                   

l Wonder if it's too late

to go over there.



    

                   

No, it's not too late. lt's never

too late to do the right thing.



    

                   

That's What l'll do. l'll go over

there and l'll do the right thing.



    

                   

[lntercom Buzzing]



    

                   

Hello ?



    

                   

Uh, hi, it's me.

oh, l'm glad l found you.



    

                   

Uh--



    

                   

Can l come up ?



    

                   

Darcy ?

l need to--



    

                   

[DoorBuzzing]



    

                   

Hey.



    

                   

You need to What ?

lt's   :   in the morning.



    

                   

l need to talk to you.



    

                   

okay.



    

                   

Thanks.



    

                   

So, you sleep here noW ?



    

                   

l thought l might as Well give it a

try before l have to sell the place.



    

                   

Sell it ? You're not

selling the place.



    

                   

Can't afford to keep it.

l don't have a job.



    

                   

You knoW, you ought to try

returning some ofyour phone calls.



    

                   

- You got yourjob back.

- oh, do l ?



    

                   

- You're a riot. You knoW that ?

- lt's true.



    

                   

Dan told me so himself.



    

                   

Why Would he tell you that ? l

didn't do thejob he hired me to do.



    

                   

Even l don't blame him

for fiiring me.



    

                   

Look, l'm, uh--

You can come on in.



    

                   

l don't have any chairs,

but ifyou Wanna--



    

                   

What if l told you that...



    

                   

you did everything

that you Were hired to do--



    

                   

everything-- but that

someone Was sabotaging you ?



    

                   

Picking your brain,

sWiping your ideas and--



    

                   

Well, you-- you never

even kneW What hit you.



    

                   

- HoW is that possible ?

- oh, trust me, it's possible.



    

                   

Well, Who Would do

such an aWful thing ?



    

                   

l Would.



    

                   

l Was a dope

With a corner offiice.



    

                   

And When you came With thejob

l Was supposed to have,



    

                   

l mean, it didn't matter

to me that...



    

                   

you Were better at it than me

oryou earned it more than l did.



    

                   

As far as l Was concerned, it Was

mine, and l Was gonna get it back.



    

                   

So l took advantage ofyou

in the Worst possible Way.



    

                   

Have you ever done that ?



    

                   

Taken the Wrong road and--

No, ofcourse you haven't.



    

                   

You Wouldn't do that.

That'sjust--



    

                   

Somebody like me does that.



    

                   

And, uh--



    

                   

The problem With that Was that While

l Was digging the hole underyou...



    

                   

l found out

all about you.



    

                   

And the more l found out...



    

                   

the more you dazzled me.



    

                   

l mean, shook my World,

changed my life, dazzled me.



    

                   

And guys like that ex-husband

ofyours, he made you feel that...



    

                   

the price you pay

just for being you...



    

                   

is that you don't get

to have love.



    

                   

lsn't that What you Were

trying to say the other night ?



    

                   

That you Weren't complete ?

That you Weren't really a Winner ?



    

                   

Everything about you--



    

                   

hoW smart you are,

hoW good you are--



    

                   

everythingjust makes me

Want you even more.



    

                   

oh, WoW.

Boy.



    

                   

So it looks like l'm here

at   :   in the morning...



    

                   

being all heroic

trying to rescue you,



    

                   

but the truth is...



    

                   

l'm the one that needs

to be rescued here.



    

                   

l sure Wish

l could read your mind.



    

                   

Well, l Was thinking that, um,



    

                   

ifeverything you're saying

is true,



    

                   

if l really have

myjob back...



    

                   

then l thinkyou're fiired.



    

                   

Well, l never-- l never really

thought about it from that angle.



    

                   

Well, not that

l don't deserve it. l-do-do--



    

                   

l'm stuttering.



    

                   

NoW l feel kind of, uh,



    

                   

embarrassed that l told you

l needed to be rescued.



    

                   

But that's-that's fiine.



    

                   

That's it ?



    

                   

l don't Want that to be it.



    

                   

l don't Want that

to be it at all.



    

                   

Then don't let a little thing like

me fiiring you stand in your Way.



    

                   

l didn't know

What to react to first.



    

                   

Hey, neWs flash.



    

                   

l took the Wrong road.



    

                   

What kind of knight

in shining armor Would l be...



    

                   

ifthe man l love

needs rescuing...



    

                   

and l just let him

Walk out my door ?



    

                   

My hero.

X-Men



                                    By



                                Ed Solomon


                                Revisions:
                              Chris McQuarrie
                                Tom DeSanto
                               Bryan Singer





                                                   February 24, 1999
















       BLACK

       Sounds of a train rolling to a halt, a shrill whistle.

       EXT. CAMP - DAY

       UP ON the door of a weathered cattle car as a German
       soldier steps into frame wearing that familiar gray of
       the all-too familiar era.

       He throws the door to reveal a mass of huddled and
       frightened people inside.

       The words are not necessary.  The language is not ours
       and the images say enough.

       Men, women and children are herded off the train like
       cattle toward a large open yard.  There they huddle until
       the Germans begin to shout and shove through the mob.

       EXT. FENCE CORRIDOR - DAY

       We are looking up at rows and rows of fences topped with
       barbed wire all designed to create a separator for the
       thousands of Jew who pour through each day.

       Then we see the eyes themselves that look up at them.

       A LITTLE BOY.  A boy who will not die this day.  A boy
       who will live to see the end of the war and the world of
       the future.

       He stares at the metal wire with an unusual fascination.

       The boy looks up at HIS WORRIED PARENTS - a sturdy-
       looking couple who try to smile and comfort him.

       The corridor comes to a junction where it splits in
       several different directions.

       Soldiers here push the mob using rifles as pikes,
       screaming and terrorizing the lot of them.  Suddenly it
       is clear what they are doing.  They are dividing the mob
       into smaller groups.

       Soon, the groups themselves become evident.

       Men from women.  Children from adults.

       The family tries to stay together, clinging to one
       another dearly, until finally, they are put upon by a
       number of gray uniforms and pulled apart. The boy is
       dragged screaming his feet no longer touching the ground.
       Two soldiers carry him as they follow the back of a large
       column of children being led through a gate of barbed
       wire so dense, it resembles wool.

       The gate closes and the boy looks back to see his parents
       - along with many others - being restrained by a number
       of soldiers.  The screaming is deafening.

       And the boy's can be heard above it all.  The soldiers
       seem to be having a hard time carrying such a frail
       child.  The farther they get from the fence, the heavier
       he seems to get, until they are literally pulling him as
       though he were anchored to something.

       His outstretched fingers claw at the thin air and he
       screams until the blood in his face is blue.

       The soldiers are literally pulled back a step and they
       begin to slip in the mud. They look at one another and
       then over their shoulders as they hear a sound.

       A groaning, creaking sound.  And then the unmistakable
       twang of wire stretched to snapping.

       ANGLE ON:

       The fence.  The gate that separates the parents.  It bows
       toward them like iron filings to a magnet, and several of
       the strands of barbed wire have given way.

       The boy continues to scream as all the other faces simply
       freeze and wonder.

       One of the soldiers pulls a wooden baton from his belt
       and brains the boy violently.

       He slumps and the soldiers carrying him spring forward as
       through a rope that was holding them back has been cut.
       They nearly fall, looking at one another with some
       concern, some confusion....

       Then they follow the line of children that has gotten
       ahead of them.

       ANGLE ON:

       The boy's parents watch him as he -- as they, are taken
       away.

       The rest of their story is as you would expect.

       EXT. SKY - DAY

       Bright, bright blue framing a blinding white sun.

       PAN DOWN AGAIN TO REVEAL:

       The cracked, drought-stricken soil of nowhere.

       TITLES:

       KENYA - 1978

       A group of children at play.  Tribal children who,
       without the help of the titles, could be from any age.

       They run through a tiny village of tents, playing.  Every
       child holds a long reed-like stick and they chase each
       other playing their version of tag.

       As each child is tapped, they chase the others.  Each
       trying to avoid being "it", though never going far enough
       away to miss the fun.

       One girl in particular.  A PRETTY GIRL OF 12, with
       unusual white hair, is tagged and immediately shunned.

       She chases kids this way and that, but to no avail.  She
       is not strong enough, nor agile enough, to win.

       She tumbles and lands on her stick, snapping it.  She
       stands and, when the children see that her stick is
       broken, they begin to giggle.

       The giggles become laughter and the laughter becomes a
       taunt, and before we even realize, the inherent cruelty
       of children let loose becomes evident.

       They have now formed a circle, at first avoiding her
       touch with distance, but now growing tighter with menace.
       In the unspoken manner of children at prey, the group
       begins to chant in their native tongue - a song we have
       not heard but sung in a way none-too inviting.  They
       begin to poke at her with the reeds, driving her back.

       The girl now moves to the center of the circle, no longer
       wishing to tag anyone.

       ONE DEVIOUS CHILD seems to get an idea.  He takes his
       stick and smacks it across her shoulder.  She turns to
       face the child and another swings his stick across her
       back with a solid THWACK.  Before long, mob rule gives
       way and all the kids are swinging at her and laughing.

       It grows to the brink of frenzy, the laughing and the
       shouting not too unlike the noise of the previous scene.

       So much so, we may miss the first flake of snow.  The
       children certainly do.  It is snowing for a good ten
       seconds before the last of them stops.

       By then, the snow is thick as flies and wafting down to
       melt instantly on the hot African soil that has never
       seen snow before.

       ANGLE ON:

       Adults come out of their huts and in from the fields and
       the whole of the village is soon gathered around the
       little girl, staring up from the clear blue sky and the
       snow that falls from nowhere.  From nothing.

       One by one, all eyes fall on the little girl and the
       looks of curiosity become looks of fear.  Of
       superstition.

       Punctuated by a solid thump.

       And then another.

       AN OLD MAN looks down at his feet and sees a tiny,
       misshapen ball of ice, no bigger than his eye.  He looks
       at it, bites it, then pops it in his mouth - breath
       turning to steam.

       Another such chunk of ice pops him on the head.  THE
       CROWD LAUGHS.

       They look up again and see that mixed with the snow are
       tiny pellets of hail, seeming to increase in number as
       the snow mysteriously wanes.

       And the pellets are getting larger.  Until they land as
       hunks.

       The white haired girl drops to the ground and covers her
       head as hailstones the size of baseballs plow into the
       Earth.

       Before long, tents are collapsing and panic ensues.

       And all along the white haired girl sits huddled in the
       dust, crying.

       As hailstones fall in a circle around her, never coming
       closer than then a few feet or so.

       INT.  HIGH SCHOOL GYMNASIUM - NIGHT

       ONE MORE SKY.  This one a backdrop.  Cheap paint and
       tissue paper hung with hooks on a wall just behind the
       basket on a full court.

       As we pull back, we see the skyline of New York, crudely
       made out with its silhouette buildings of dark gray and
       black - windows of yellow.

       Among the famous landmarks represented is the Statue of
       Liberty, complete with a real light bulb burning in the
       torch.

       We are at a prom. The theme is RHAPSODY IN BLUE and the
       decor has made tragic efforts to show it.  The
       tablecloths are blue, the napkins are blue - far too many
       of the tuxes are powder blue, and the blue eye shadow is
       as heavy as expected.

       Peter Gabriel's "In Your Eyes" gives painful indication
       of the era, but here it is, nonetheless:

       SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA - 1986

       MOVE ACROSS THE FLOOR and through the swaying, clutching,
       sweating dancers to the bathroom.

       Through the door to the usual -

       INT.  BOYS BATHROOM - NIGHT

       Several boys are here, bow ties undone - unclipped in
       most cases.  Smoking, drinking from whatever inventive
       container was used to smuggle in booze.  Breath freshener
       and Visine are the chaser.

       Some of the guys are rolling joints while others make the
       sad effort to wave smoke away.  Who are they kidding?
       It's a fog in here.

       MOVE DOWN THE ROW OF TOILET STALLS to one in particular.
       Here we find A FRECKLED KID standing in front of mirror,
       clearly holding himself up from the effect of God knows
       what.

       He talks to his friend in the he stall behind him.

                           FRECKLED KID
                 Man, what's the matter with you?

       His friend is on the toilet with his head in his hands.
       He seems to be in some pain.  He is SCOTT SUMMERS - AGE
       17.

                           FRECKLED KID (contíd)
                 Dude.  Lighten up.  She's just a girl.
                 You just gotta-

                           SCOTT
                 No, my eyes... my eyes are killing me.

       The Freckled kid offers a small plastic bottle.

                           FRECKLED KID
                 You want some Visine, man?

                           SCOTT
                 My... eyes...

       The freckled kid looks and sees that Scott's eyes are
       watering so badly that tears are literally streaming
       through his fingers.

       He goes back to the mirror to look at his own.

                           SCOTT
                 ... they're burning...

       The freckled kid turns back to him.

                           FRECKLED KID
                 Dude, how much did you smoke?

                           SCOTT
                 I didn't smoke anything.

       Scott looks up, taking his hands away, revealing for an
       instant that his eyes are merely bright red embers in his
       head.  Featureless but for the color.

       Freckles takes a step back.

       INT. GYM - OUTSIDE BOYS ROOM - NIGHT

       A blinding flash of light shows through the frosted glass
       in the double door and cuts through the crack into the
       dark of the gym.

       All who see it are stunned. Frozen.  A lingering moment
       of confusion, then:

       BOOM, the doors to the Boys Room burst open and the
       occupants scatter into the gym.

       INT. GYM - STALL - NIGHT

       Freckles is still there, legs locked.

       FRECKLES' P.O.V.

       He looks at Scott who is now crying meekly in the stall,
       covering his eyes again -- afraid to open them.

       The door of the stall across from him swings closed TO
       REVEAL:

       A HOLE, PUNCHED THROUGH THE STALL DOOR framing Scott's
       face perfectly.  Pull back to reveal that the hole
       continues through the wall, into the girl's bathroom next
       door.

       In the corner several girls huddle together, they are
       afraid.

       INT. SENATE HEARING ROOM - DAY

       Packed with reporters and photographers.  There's a dais -
       a raised panel of senators - and a second, lower panel.
       This is where the "experts" are testifying.

       Panning across the faces of several G.O.P. creeps as they
       watch something with varying degrees of interest.

       TITLES:

       WASHINGTON D.C. - THE NOT TOO DISTANT FUTURE

       A woman's voice holds over the proceedings.  It is the
       voice of JEAN GREY - whom we will soon meet.

       As she is speaking, we come to a large screen television
       at one end of the room.

                           JEAN (O.S.)
                 In every organism on Earth there
                 exists a mutator gene - the X-factor,
                 as it has come to be known.  It is the
                 basic building block of evolution -
                 the reason we have evolved from homo
                 habilus...

       FOOTAGE REFLECTS THE VARIOUS STAGES OF HUMAN EVOLUTION.
       Accompanying it is a GRAPH with a DIAGONAL LINE
       indicating the ascent of the "human being" as we know it.
       Accompanying the graph are evolving images of the
       "evolution of man."

                           JEAN (O.S.) (contíd)
                 ... to homo erectus, to homo sapiens
                 Neanderthals, and, finally, to homo
                 sapiens.

       The animated demo on the screen zooms in on the lowest
       order of human depicted - homo habilus - a primitive, ape-
       like humanoid covered in hair.  As he is singled out, the
       terrain of his time appears, along with the harsh signs
       of his winter.

                           JEAN (O.S.) (contíd)
                 Taking it's cues from the climate,
                 terrain, various sources of
                 nourishment, the mutator gene tells
                 the body when it needs to change to
                 adapt to a new environment.  The
                 process is subtle, normally taking
                 thousands of years.

       As the graphic changes and depicts WARMER CLIMATE, the
       HAIR STARTS TO DISAPPEAR ON THE MAN'S BODY - gradually
       evolving into the human we now know as ourselves.

       Now the terrain is modern, the weather pleasant.  The
       image pulls back and places this man back in line at the
       front of evolution.

                           JEAN (O.S.) (contíd)
                 Only in the last few thousand years
                 did mankind begin to make clothes for
                 himself, build shelters, use heat and
                 grow food in large quantities.  With
                 this man-made environment remaining
                 relatively stable, the X-factor became
                 dormant.

       QUICK SHOTS: early huts, early clothing; then early
       homes, later homes, air conditioning, cars, modern high-
       rises, etc.

       PULL BACK WIDER

                           JEAN (O.S.) (contíd)
                 Until now.

       On the room, the reactions, and on JEAN herself.

       A strong, attractive woman in her early 30's.  A simple
       placard before her:

       JEAN GREY.  GENETICALLY ENHANCED RIGHTS ASSOCIATION.

       The screen shows the words "PRESENT DAY," where the
       "evolution line" has resumed its rise.

                           JEAN (contíd)
                 For reasons still not known to us, we
                 are seeing what some are calling the
                 beginnings of another stage of
                 evolution -

       A MICROPHONED VOICE interrupts.  Bearing down is the
       flamboyant SENATOR SCOTT "FRANK" KELLY, a conservative
       from Florida, and the hearing's Chairman.

       Just behind him sits his aide HENRY GUYRICH - mid 30's,
       typical government cog.

                           KELLY
                 You're avoiding the question I posed
                 to you at the beginning of the
                 hearing, Ms. Grey.  Three words: Are
                 mutants dangerous?

                           JEAN
                 I am avoiding a question that is
                 decidedly loaded, Senator.  The wrong
                 person behind the wheel of a car can
                 be dangerous.

       Another SENATOR (LUCINDA ROWEE) speaks into her
       microphone:

                           SENATOR ROWEE
                 Well, we do license people to drive.

                           JEAN
                 But not to live.

       Kelly raises a hand, continuing his tirade.

                           KELLY
                 Ms. Grey -- you work at a school for
                 mutants in Westchester, New York.  Can
                 you tell the members of this committee
                 what exactly you are teaching these
                 mutants?

                           JEAN
                 Math.  History.  Science.  English.
                 Athletics --

                           KELLY
                 You wouldn't happen to be teaching
                 them how to use their powers to --

                           JEAN
                 Control, Senator...  we teach them
                 control.

       Kelly raises a blown-up photograph: a grainy, super-
       zoomed, somewhat obscured image of a CAR ON A FREEWAY
       which appears to have "melted."  Now he's really playing
       to the crowd.

                           KELLY
                 This was taken by a state police
                 officer in Secaucus, New Jersey.  A
                 man in a minor altercation literally
                 melted the car in front of him.  I
                 don't know where you come from, Ms.
                 Grey, but where I come from, you don't
                 go melting people's cars when they cut
                 you off.  You do it the old fashioned
                 way -- you give 'em the finger.
                     (laughs from the crowd)
                 But what you presume to tell this
                 committee -

                           JEAN
                 I presume nothing, I am here to tell
                 you that in time, the mutator gene
                 will activate in every living human
                 being on this planet.  Perhaps even
                 your children, Senator.

                           KELLY
                 I can assure you, there is no such
                 creature in my genes.

       The room LAUGHS.  Kelly mistaken thinks it is for him,
       until the double meaning occurs to him.  He is
       momentarily embarrassed, but he quickly recovers.

                           KELLY (contíd)
                 Ms. Grey, we are not here to weed out
                 mutants.  The Registration Act is
                 designed merely to assess their
                 potential threat - if any - to
                 national security.

       The crowd reacts loudly in support of the Senator.  Some
       cheer, some roar, some yell obscenities at Jean.

       Jean stands and walks out, pushing her way through
       reporters now moving in for her response. All the while,
       Kelly is delivering his last words.

                           KELLY (contíd)
                 Mutants are very real.  They are among
                 us.  We must know who they are.  And
                 above all, we must know what they can
                 do.

       AS THE SHOUTS OF THE MOB RISE AND GIVE WAY TO:

       EXT.  CAPITOL BUILDING - WASHINGTON D.C. - DAY

       An angry mob outside the Senate hearing.  Voices roar in
       dissent when Jean emerges, coming down the steps without
       hesitation.

       She sees signs condemning mutants, a scarce few
       supporting them.

       A group of reporters are behind her and more meet her in
       front, closing her in.  Microphones are shove in her
       face.

                           REPORTERS/VARIOUS
                 Dr. Grey, how do you feel about the
                 Senator's Statement / How is the
                 mutant community reacting?  Is it true
                 that mutants are dangerous? / Is there
                 a mutant plot to overthrow the
                 government?

       She ignores them all, trying to push through.

       ANGLE ON:

       A KID IN THE CROWD holding a full can of Coke.  Smiling
       to his friend beside him.  He fires it over the heads of
       everyone toward Jean.  Perfect trajectory.  Closing fast.

       Suddenly:

       Silence falls over the crowd.  A total silence.  An
       absolute silence.

       All eyes watch in awe at the can and its liquid trail,
       frozen in mid-air a few inches from Jean's face.  It
       simply hovers there.

                           JEAN
                 Weíre not the ones to be afraid of.

       Using telekinesis she slowly lowers the can to the
       ground.  She shakes her head, almost ashamed of the
       display.  Almost as if to say ìI didnít want to do that.î

       The can rolls down the steps.  People move away from it
       as though the can itself were dangerous.

       The crowd steps back in genuine fear.  Jean simply moves
       ahead now, unimpeded, still shaking her head.

       EXT. CABIN IN THE SNOW COVERED WILDERNESS - DAY

       Smoke curling from the chimney, warm light emanating from
       the window.

       A well-worn pick-up truck parked axles deep in the snow,
       the back filled with a cord of cut wood.  A hand painted
       scrawl on the door reads:

       Firewood for Sales

       A slope, just behind the cabin leading to a frozen lake.

       PUSH IN SLOWLY TOWARDS THE CABIN.  Ten beers sit cooling
       in the snow outside the door.  We hear LED ZEPPELINíS
       ìBLACK DOG.î

       INT. CABIN - DAY

       Music thunders, quite a contrast to the surroundings.  A
       cosy little abode, showing signs of neglect, as though
       decorated with a gentler touch that passed not too long
       ago.

       A large shelf replete with books.  An electric mix from
       Sun Tsuís The Art of War to Mark Twainís The Adventures
       of Huckleberry Finn.

       A fire burns in the fireplace.  On the mantle sit a few
       old black and white photos of a slightly younger Logan
       posing with a group of HARD-CASE MILITARY TYPES in a
       heavily wooded area.  We can not tell if they are true
       Military or simply mercenaries.

       In the wall above the mantle, a sketch of a beautiful
       woman.

       And finally we come to the occupant of the house, sitting
       at the only table in the center of the room.  His back is
       to us.  His hair is coarse and black, sprouting wildly
       from his head.  He is LOGAN.  We will come to know him
       well.  As well as we can.

       Despite the loud, pounding music, he is working with the
       meticulousness of a watch maker.  At the same time, he
       smokes a thick cigar.  A tall bottle of beer on the floor
       next to his chair.  A SINGLE, SILVER DOG TAG hangs from
       his neck from a battered chain.  As we get closer, we
       look over his shoulder and see what he is working on so
       intensely.

       Pencil rubs against paper furiously.  He is sketching,
       what we cannot see.  But he is definitely caught up in
       his own minds eye.

       HIS HEAD SUDDENLY TURNS.  He listens to something we
       cannot begin to hear.   A momentary pause, and he goes
       back to sketching.

       Just as he seems to be settling back into the details
       again.

       WHACK

       He reaches over and shuts off the music coming from the
       box beside him.  He listens.

       He stands, turning around slowly in a circle.  He drops
       the sketch pad on the chair.

       Only the crackle of logs in the fire.

       LOGANíS P.O.V.

       We follow his gaze around the room.  Past the fire which
       sounds suddenly like a blazing inferno, past the clock
       which ticks as loud as clapping hands, past the simmering
       tea-kettle which hisses like a seething cauldron.
       Finally, he glances at the cigar which we hear crackling
       nearly as loud as the fire.

       Loganís senses are amplified many times more then ours,
       he walks to the door.

       E.C.U.

       His nostrils flare.

       He raises his fist beside his face.  For a moment, it
       seems as if he is just chinking.  Then -- SHOOK - THREE
       STEELY CLAWS some nine inches long, emerge inexplicably
       from the skin just above Loganís knuckles.

       Logan barley turns his head before.

       BOOM

       THE WINDOW EXPLODES, letting in freezing wind and
       billowing snow.

       Logan is hit from behind.

       The attack is so ferocious that we are unable to make out
       the attacker.  Whatever it is, it is HUGE.  We can hear
       it snarling and see flashes of its claws as it slams
       Logan back.

       EXT. CABIN - DAY

       The front door SMASHES OPEN.  The two combatants roll
       madly down the hill obscured by flying snow.

       Finally, we see Logan separate from his attacker and
       CRASH THROUGH THE ICE of the frozen lake.

       E.C.U. - A MASSIVE CLAW-LIKE HAND lifts into frame the
       SHINING DOG TAG hanging from it.  The tagís chain slides
       off and too the ground.

       UNDER ICE

       Logan struggles, already short of breath.

       As he struggles -- water starts to fill his lungs.  His
       skin goes pale.  He is drowning.

       EXT. ABOVE ICE - DAY

       We hear an angry grunt as the thing starts to hunt for
       Logan.  It stalks across the ice, searching.  We catch a
       glimpse of shoulder, a CLAWED FOOT, a MANE OF HAIR.

       UNDER ICE

       Loganís struggle has decreased somewhat as his strength
       wanes.

       CRACK

       The ice above Logan shatters as a clawed hand reaches
       through.

       EXT. ABOVE ICE - DAY

       A violent YANK.  The ice gives way to the soaked and half-
       frozen Logan.

       The creature picks Logan up by his face, CUTTING DEEPLY
       into his cheek, and holds him up like a rag doll.  The
       two are face to face.  This is called SABRETOOTH.  The
       reasons are obvious.

       Teeth like said animal and catís eyes to match.

       A mutant, certainly a member of a class remote in the
       extreme.

       And then it speaks.

                           SABRETOOTH
                 Itís not gonna be that easy.

       Logan, half-drowned, opens his eyes and looks right at
       Sabretooth as though heís going to say something.
       Instead, a LUNG-FULL OF WATER comes shooting out.

       With that, Sabretooth ROARS, as he hoists Logan up and
       throws him.  Logan flies nearly ten yards.  He lands head
       first.

       Sabretooth skulks over to him.

       With the sound of Sabretoothís breathing comes the rising
       of the wind...

       Snow from the ground begins to swirl in the bitter cold
       air.

       Sabretooth is nearly upon Logan now and the wind rises
       further, until he must shield his eyes from the bitter
       icy air.

       As he approaches, we see a fresh cut on Loganís face
       HEALING BEFORE OUR VERY EYES, leaving not so much as a
       scratch.

       THEN:

       A SUDDEN FLASH OF LIGHT

       Lightning.  No.  Lightning is not red.

       Sabretooth looks around, puzzled, then down at Loganís
       motionless body.  Then to his feet where a hole in the
       ice sprouts bubbling water.

       The wind blows so violently now that he nearly misses two
       figures standing only a few yards away - mere silhouettes
       in the icy haze.

       A closer look tells us it is a man and a woman, THEY WEAR
       STRANGE UNIFORMS of form-fitting material - the man wears
       a reflective visor that hides his eyes.  The womanís face
       is care revealing dark skin, penetrating eyes and unusual
       white hair.

       ANOTHER FLASH - one that seems to come from the manís
       visor itself.  An intense beam of red light.

       Sabretooth looks down and sees the ice at his feet has
       broken away.

       He plunges through the ice like a mark in a carnival
       dunking tank.  His massive weight and hairy coat quickly
       suck him down.

       The TWO FIGURES - CYCLOPS (Scott Summers) AND STORM
       (Ororo Munroe) - obviously two of the children we saw
       earlier now grown - move over the hole and calmly watch
       Sabretooth gather himself and swim back to the surface.

       Storm looks down at the hole, concentrating her intense
       gaze.  The wind whips further and the water in the hole
       begins to freeze over.

       UNDER THE ICE

       Sabretooth wisely concedes.

       With one last look at the two mysterious figures now
       nearly obscured by the ice, he turns his body and swims
       away with the same agility he had on land.

       ABOVE THE ICE

       THE SNOW AND WIND ARE NOW VIOLENTLY RAGING

       Cyclops and Storm walk over to Logan and look down at him
       curiously.

       LOGANíS P.O.V.

       They look at one another, wondering.  Above them, a black
       shape looms into frame, bringing with it the whining of
       jet engines.

       This is the X-JET and it is like no other plane we have
       seen before.

       Loganís eyes begin to close as they obscure the last of
       all perceptible detail.

       INT. CAVERNOUS ROOM - NIGHT

       CLOSE UP ON:

       The Periodic Table of Elements.  A chart made up of
       blocks depicting the elements and their chemical symbols.

       Among the standards like Gold (Au) and Iron (I) and
       Oxygen (O2) is a new square on simple red construction
       paper tacked to the top.

       It contains simply a large letter ìA.î

       TRACKING SHOT THROUGH:

       We are in a laboratory of sorts, quite different from any
       we have ever seen -- and so are its occupants.

       MORTIMER TOYNBEE, a dim, loyal thug whose agile leaping
       ability and superhuman strength have earned him the name
       TOAD.

       Across the room, JOHN ALLERDYCE, a wiry redhead whose
       ability to control fire with his fingers has earned him
       the name PYRO.

       In the corner we see BLOB, no explanation needed,
       devouring a BUCKET of cereal, preariously balanced on his
       huge belly.

       They are a bestial and sinister bunch.

       Toad and Pyro are working on:

       A MACHINE

       A fantastic device which occupies a hallowed space in
       this lab.  It is meticulously designed, and with its
       intricate circuitry, wires, and power boards, it
       resembles most closely (and only resembles, because truly
       itís like nothing weíve ever seen before) a combination
       of an upright torpedo and a fantastic light source --
       only far more dark and foreboding.

       Pyro holds a stick of solder in one hand.  He lights a
       lighter with the other, then drops it.  Strange thing --
       the flame remains hovering about his finger.  Quickly the
       flame intensifies and turns blue, melting the solder over
       a small circuit board.  Then, the flame is gone.

       He sticks out his hand like a surgeon.

                           PYRO
                 Hand me the dykes.

       Toad, both hands occupied, flicks his long tongue and
       grabs a pair of pliers which he rests in Pyroís hand,
       leaving them slicked with SLIME.  The flame in his finger
       goes out.  The slimy coat over the pliers quickly
       HARDENS, freezing their action.

                           PYRO (contíd)
                 I asked you not to do that.

       Blob laughs.  Toad shrugs.

       In the background, almost ignored by them, something is
       on the television.  The news.

                           NEWSCASTER (O.S.)
                 Preparations are nearly completed for
                 the upcoming anniversary gala
                 celebrating the formation of the
                 United Nations.  With nearly every
                 invitation confirmed, the occasion
                 promises to be the largest single
                 gathering of world leaders in history.

       The image in the screen is a helicopter shot of ELLIS
       ISLAND, with Liberty Island and the famous Statue in the
       background.

                           NEWSCASTER (contíd)
                 Ellis Island, once an arrival point
                 for thousands of immigrants crossing
                 the Atlantic with the hopes of a
                 better life, will open its doors
                 again.  Only this time it will be to
                 leaders and their families from over
                 200 nations.

       Blob belches his skepticism deafeningly.

       TRACK FURTHER THROUGH THE LAIR AND OUT THE DOOR as the
       Newscast drones on.

       INT. CORRIDOR/OFFICE - NIGHT

       WE MOVE through subterranean corridors and past dozens of
       projects that share some similarity to the machine we
       have seen, including crude designs that have been
       rejected or stripped of their good ideas.

       FAINTLY we become aware of a clicking sound.  Almost like
       a stopwatch very far away, always growing louder.

       The newscast has faded and another voice is getting
       closer from somewhere down the hall.

       Sabretooth emerges around a corner heading towards us,
       turning just as we get to him.  The clicking is loud and
       clear now.

       Sabretooth enters an office and we follow him.  Seated at
       a desk in the center of the room is MAX LENSHERR - age -
       somewhere after sixty, but strong and vital for his
       years.  He is more often called MAGNETO.

       The clicking is from the sound of an executive pendulum
       thingy on his desk.  The six steel balls hang onto one
       another from string supports in formation depending on
       how many are let to fly from either end.  One ball
       strikes one and one ball swings out from the other.  Two
       balls and two, and so on.

       Slight difference.  There are no strings supporting the
       balls, thus defying gravity.

       A chess set - all of its pieces made of beautifully
       crafted iron - sits on the far end of the desk.

       He is watching television, or more accurately listening -
       his eyes looking off into space, deep in thought.

                           INTERVIEWER
                 ...and the leading voice in the call
                 for Mutant registration is Senator
                 Scott Frank Kelly, of Florida, who
                 claims to support the constitutional
                 rights of the genetically enhanced,
                 but whose crusade to register mutants
                 is gaining popularity.

       Now Kelly is on the screen.  Magneto shakes his head.

                           MAGNETO
                 Not this one again.

       When Sabretooth clears his throat, the clicking balls
       instantly freeze and hover there.

       The volume on the television drops, though no remote is
       in sight.

       Magneto notices Sabretoothís apparent exhaustion, his
       torn clothing, including the slashes in his side.  His
       look asks ìwhat happened?î

       Sabretooth crosses the room and places the shining dog
       tag on the table.  The one he ripped from Loganís neck.
       He sits at the desk, puzzling over it.

                           MAGNETO (contíd)
                 Your expression tells me the news is
                 not good, brother.

                           SABRETOOTH
                 I lost him.

                           MAGNETO
                 How?

                           SABRETOOTH
                 It was Xavierís people.  They knew.

       Frustrated.  Magneto inspects the dog tag.

                           MAGNETO
                 I want him.  That is all they know
                 because that is all you know.

       Nothing odd about the tag at a glance, military dog tag,
       weathered and beaten, but certainly plain, Canadian
       Military, Loganís name, rank, and a faded serial number.

       His thumb feels the indention of the word at the bottom
       of the tag that does not seem to fit here.

       WOLVERINE

       We hear the voice of Senator Kelly on the TV.  Kelly is
       on the screen giving good face.

       As he turns up the television, and again, we donít see
       how, he places the dog tag on his desk, thinking.

                           KELLY
                 I think the Presidentís pre-occupation
                 with international affairs has drawn
                 his attention away from this problem.
                 Americanís deserve the right to decide
                 whether they want their children to be
                 in school with mutants.  To be taught
                 by mutants.  They also have the right
                 to know the dangers.  Thatís the
                 purpose of registration.  And mark my
                 words, if the President isnít strong
                 enough to do what needs to be done...

       As the Senator continues we PULL BACK and see Magneto
       watching this.  He begins speaking over Kellyís diatribe.

                           MAGNETO
                 And you may mark my words, Senator
                 Kelly.  All your plotting, all your
                 hatred.  I have plans for you.  Iíve
                 seen you come, and I will see you go.

       As Magneto turns Loganís dog tag between his fingers, we
       canít help but notice FADED PURPLE SERIAL NUMBERS
       TATTOOED IN HIS ARM.
       He then drops the dog tag on the desk, Magneto stands and
       heads for the door, Sabretooth follows.  The television
       shuts off and Magneto waves a hand as though beckoning
       someone to follow.  Or some thing.

       He stops and looks back at the dog tag on the desk and
       waves again.  A paper clip just next to the dog tag skips
       off the desk and into Magnetoís hand.  He drops it,
       annoyed and tries again.

       A slight rattle, then nothing more, as though the dog tag
       were held down by an unimaginable weight.

       He walks over and picks up the dog tag, inspecting it,
       then trying to bend it.  Nothing.

                           MAGNETO (contíd)
                 Can it be..?

       He puts it back on the desk.  Now Magneto concentrates -
       sending a wave of magnetic force that ripples the air
       around it.

       The tag trembles, but does not budge.  He looks at
       Sabretooth and smiles.

                           SABRETOOTH
                 Is that what youíre looking for?

                           MAGNETO
                 A piece.  Only a piece.

                           SABRETOOTH
                 Is it enough?

                           MAGNETO
                 Enough for a test.

       And as Magneto looks up at Kelly on the television we:

       PAN OVER TO A BULLETIN BOARD on the wall beside him.

       To a periodic table, smaller than the first.

       But still with that red square and added letter ìAî.

       EXT. WHITE HOUSE - PARKING LOT - DAY

       Kelly and Guyrich walk out of the White House on their
       way to their limousine.

                           KELLY
                 I canít believe the President canít
                 see it.  I wouldnít be surprised if he
                 has a mutant on his staff.

       Kelly and Guyrich climb into the limo and slump back in
       their seats.

       INT. LIMOUSINE - DAY

                           GUYRICH
                 Have you thought of a demonstration of
                 some kind?  Maybe use the UN Summit to
                 our advantage.  The whole world will
                 be watching.

                           KELLY
                 Iím not interested in the whole world,
                 Henry... Iím interested in America.
                 Let the rest of the world deal with
                 mutants their own way.

                           GUYRICH
                 Where to?

       Kelly rubs his eyes.

                           KELLY
                 Home.

       Guyrich leans to address the driver.

                           GUYRICH
                 Dulles Airport.

       INT. LABORATORY - DAY

       Medical monitors beep, keeping track of the vital signs
       of -- Logan, who lies in a bed in the middle of a medical
       lab.

       In the wall beside Loganís bed is a light board on which
       hang Loganís X-rays.  Loganís skeleton seems to be more
       the creation of a Deco architect than of nature.
       Streamlined, refined... almost manufactured.

       He is asleep, recovering.

       Jean Grey enters the lab.  She walks over and examines
       the X-rays, fascinated by their unique structure.  She
       notices what appears to be an unusually complex network
       of bones in the forearm.  Jean looks down and runs her
       fingers over the traces of three incisions on the backs
       of Loganís hands.  Jeanís eye moves across his body.  His
       rippling muscles.

       Jean uncaps an IV needle and moves to the middle of
       Loganís arm.  We cannot help but notice a diamond ring on
       her left hand.

       Jean starts to put an IV in Loganís arm.

       Just as she is sticking the needle in his arm HE JOLTS
       VIOLENTLY.

       SNAP

       Loganís hand reaches up quickly, breaking the needle off
       in his arm.  He grabs a startled Jean by the throat.

       He is out of bed.  She is unable to speak, choked silent
       by his grip.

       He places his fist near her face.  We see the three faint
       scars just above his knuckles.

       Hesitation.  Logan looks at her for a moment.  Taken by
       her beauty.  Then he is on his feet.

       Jean is on the floor, gasping for breath.

       Logan realizes something is missing.  He reaches to his
       chest and feels for the dog tag.  Gone.  He stifles a
       curse.

                           LOGAN
                 Where is it?

       He looks at Jean who recoils from him in terror.  Logan
       thinks, then bolts.

       INT. HALLWAY - DAY

       Logan comes out into an empty hall.  Strange.  Deathly
       quiet.  It is very sparse and modern, matching the lab we
       have just left.  Logan runs and goes through the first
       door he comes to, to keep Jean from seeing where he has
       gone.

       INT. READY ROOM - DAY

       He looks around and sees he is in some sort of locker
       room.  A row of lockers run along one side of the wall.
       And hanging from the other side in a row, are UNIFORMS,
       much like the ones Cyclops and Storm were wearing in the
       snow.

       He starts to rummage through the lockers, coming up with
       a shirt and pants that almost fit.  A pair of sneakers as
       well.

       He hears the sound of approaching foot-steps coming from
       the hallway.  He spots another entrance on the far side
       of the room and, carrying his clothes, he staggers out,
       still in considerable pain.

       INT. HANGER - DAY

       Logan rushes through the door, looking behind to see if
       he has been seen.  He closes the door and leans back to
       catch his breath... which stops momentarily as he looks
       around the massive hanger he has entered.

       The X-Jet, the stealth plane we saw in Alaska, now sits
       parked and quiet.

       Logan walks to the plane and stops -- listening.  We hear
       a strange THUMPING.  He listens for a second.  The sound
       picks up in speed and we realize that we are listening to
       the SOUNDS OF A BASKETBALL GAME coming from above.

       As Logan tries to digest this, the door that he had just
       come through begins to open, letting in a shaft of light.
       Logan looks around wildly for a moment, looking for a
       place to hide when -

       BING.

       An elevator door opens in the wall of the hanger ten feet
       from where Logan now stands.  He whips around and runs
       for it.

       There is a button marked ìG.î  He presses it.

       INT. HALLWAY - DAY

       The elevator opens on a hallway that doesnít match the
       rooms we have already seen at all.  It is plush and
       stately, the hallway of a great mansion.

       He hears a voice coming from a room.

       As he gets closer to it, we can begin to hear:

                           VOICE
                 ... until the Emperor Constantine
                 converted to Christianity.  With that
                 one act, history was changed.  The
                 Christians who were once prosecuted
                 and fed to the lions, became accepted.

       Now the voice is clear as a bell, coming from a room with
       the door slightly ajar.

       INT. CLASSROOM - DAY

       Logan peeks in and sees in front of a chalk board, a
       massive blue furry creature called BEAST.  Besides two
       arms and two legs, the only remotely human thing on his
       ape-like face is a pair of wire spectacles.  He addresses
       a class of kids between the ages of 16 and 17.
       Besides the occasional physical alterations, there is an
       overall oddness to the group, giving way to the fact that
       in some way or another these are all mutants.

                           BEAST
                 So as their leaders went, so did
                 follow the hearts and minds of the
                 people of the Roman empire.  Which
                 made for some very happy Christians.

       Now he sees Logan standing in the door, looking back at
       him in mute shock.

                           BEAST (contíd)
                 Can I help you?

       All the students turn to see Logan, standing in a
       hospital gown with a mean case of bed head.  They start
       to giggle.

       Logan turns and heads down the hallway to the left.

       INT. HALLWAY - DAY

       Logan hears footsteps and quickly does a one eighty back
       down the hallway.  He turns a corner, hugging the wall.
       He halts.  A large oak door stands down the hall.  He
       smells something, taking in a deep breath, his head
       cocking to the side - listening.

       He turns and looks behind him.  More foot steps.  Someone
       is about to enter the hall.

       He turns again, ready to run the other way when he sees
       the SHADOWS of two more people coming from the other
       direction.  Logan is trapped.  He lunges for the large
       oak door and bursts through.

       INT. XAVIERíS OFFICE - DAY

       Logan shuts the door and leans his head back against it,
       exhausted.

                           VOICE (O.S.)
                 Good morning, Logan.

       Logan, still clutching his stolen clothes, opens his eyes
       and sees a man sitting behind a large mahogany desk --
       PROFESSOR CHARLES XAVIER, an intense and intelligent man
       just to look at him.

                           XAVIER
                 Would you like some breakfast?

       Logan, who was prepared for anything but this, just
       stares.

                           XAVIER (contíd)
                 Iím sorry, allow me to formally
                 introduce myself -- I am Professor
                 Charles Xavier.  This is my school.

                           LOGAN
                 How do you know my name?

       Xavier taps the side of his head with his finger.

                           XAVIER
                 Youíre not the only one with gifts.

       When he speaks, his lips do not move.  We realize Logan
       ìhearsî the voice in his head.  In addition, the voice is
       accompanied by the FAMILIAR SOUND OF FOOT STEPS
       indicating that perhaps Xavier had herded Logan through
       the mansion with his mind.  He does not like it.

       Xavier comes out from behind his desk.  We see that he is
       in a MOTORED WHEELCHAIR.  Realizing that he is safe for
       the moment, Logan begins putting on his stolen clothes.

                           LOGAN
                 What am I doing here?

                           XAVIER
                 I brought you here so that you would
                 be safe from Magneto.

                           LOGAN
                 Who?

                           XAVIER
                 A very powerful mutant who for some
                 reason has taken an interest in you.
                 Iím not sure why, but until we find
                 out, I must ask you to stay.

       Logan looks Xavier over.  He is obviously a kind man who
       is offering his help.  Logan is silent for a moment.

                           LOGAN
                 No thanks.

       Logan goes to the door.

       Xavier, disappointed, just watches him go.

       INT. FRONT HALL - DAY

       Logan sees a grand entrance with two huge oak doors and
       brightly-polished steel knobs that scream ìexit.î  He
       starts in that direction when the doors begin to open.

       A moment of traffic, laughing, chatter... then they are
       all gone.

       He gets to the doors and pushes them open.  Bright white
       sunlight floods in, nearly blinding him.

       EXT. MANSION - DAY

       The first thing he sees through the haze is wings - GIANT
       WHITE, FEATHERY ANGEL WINGS.

       A young boy, no more than fourteen, has them sprouting
       from his back.  He is stretching not only his limbs, but
       his unusual appendages in the morning breeze.

       Sensing something - the boy turns, and sees this
       shambling ruin of a man in the doorway.

       Off Loganís expression, we hear the flapping of wings and
       see his awestruck face following the boy onto the sky.

       This only holds his attention for a moment.  Logan looks
       across an expanse of grounds that house the Mansion.  A
       high, wrought-iron gate surrounds the entire property.

       He watches as several children play basketball across a
       large court.

       Logan shakes his head and is out the closing door.

       Xavier simply watches from his window.

       EXT. MANSION - FRONT GATE - DAY

       Logan heads for the gate.

       SHOOK -- Logan pops his claws.

       Suddenly, the gate slowly opens -- Inviting him to leave.
       He pauses, momentarily confused.  He takes one long look
       back at the mansion.  And then leaves.

       Stay for a moment.  Watch him go.  Then pan across a sign
       which reads --

           PROFESSOR CHARLES XAVIERíS SCHOOL FOR THE GIFTED

                        Westchester N.Y.

       PANNING slowly across the road to the thick woods on the
       other side of the street.

       SOMETHING MOVES in the trees, catching our eye.  Someone
       is watching.  It is Toad, camouflaged amidst the trees
       and branches.

       EXT. SKY - DUSK

       A helicopter streaks across the sky.

       INT. HELICOPTER - DUSK

       Kelly sleeps fitfully in the large seat.  A bump of
       turbulence.  He wakes suddenly and looks out the window
       seeing the ocean below.

       Kelly looks out the window again and sees water.  They
       are flying low.

       He looks at Guyrich, who sleeps as well.  He wakes him.

                           KELLY
                 Where the hell are we?

       Guyrich looks out the window and looks at Kelly, puzzled.
       He stands and goes to the door to the cabin of the
       helicopter.

                           GUYRICH
                 Pilot?

       No answer.  Guyrich tries to open the door.  Itís locked.

                           GUYRICH (contíd)
                 Pilot?

       Kelly looks out the window now and sees the helicopter is
       closing in on an island - where, is anyoneís guess.  What
       is known is that the place is no pleasure resort.

       It is in fact some sort of refurbished island fortress,
       complete with turrets, built right into the side of the
       cliffs.

       EXT. ISLAND HELIPAD - DUSK

       A clearing in the middle of a ring of trees at the base
       of a rocky rise.  The helicopter touches down.

       THE PILOT, wrapped from head to toe in a flight suit and
       helmet, gets out and opens the side door, exposing Kelly
       and Guyrich to the intense wind of the rotors.  They
       cover their eyes, cowering.

       KELLYíS P.O.V.

       Two figures come out of a hole in the mountain.  One
       seems extremely larger than the other.

       Guyrich and Kelly step out.  As they get closer he can
       make out Magneto and Sabretooth.

                           KELLY
                 Dear God... Dear... God.

       The Pilot removes his helmet to REVEAL:

       Pyro, smiling.

                           KELLY (contíd)
                 What the hell is this?

       Kelly is utterly confused.  As Magneto nears, Guyrich
       steps forward to greet him, putting arms around Magnetoís
       neck and kissing him deeply.  Then Magneto looks deep and
       lovingly into Guyrichís eyes.

       And with that GUY SHAPE SHIFTS into a beautiful woman who
       herefore will be known as MYSTIQUE.  Her body is covered
       in iridescent blue scales, which complement her lovely,
       solid yellow eyes.

       Kelly, of course, is shocked.  Mystique shows a little
       hip, raising the scales at her mid-section mockingly, as
       the last of what we thought was Guyrich slips underneath.

                           KELLY
                 You... wha... Who are you... Where is
                 Henry?

                           MAGNETO
                 Mr. Guyrich has been dead for some
                 time Senator.

                           KELLY
                 You mutant bastards...

       Pyro grabs the Senator as he runs back for the helicopter
       in vain.

                           KELLY
                 Whatever you do to me... no matter
                 what youíll make me right.  Every word
                 I have spoken will be confirmed.

                           MAGNETO
                 Gosh, I hope so.

       As Kelly struggles against all hope.

                           KELLY
                 People like you are the reason people
                 like me exist.

       And with that, Mystique walks up.

                           MYSTIQUE
                 And people like you are the reason I
                 was afraid to go to school as a child.

       With that, Mystique punches Kelly.  Knocking him out
       cold.

       BLACK

       INT. MACHINE ROOM - MAGNETOíS LAIR - NIGHT

       Kelly comes to.

       Magneto walks past him, holding Loganís dog tag.

       His thumb crushes one last time over the curious
       ìWolverine.î

       PULL OUT TO REVEAL:

       Kelly is strapped to a metal chair, bound impossibly
       tight.  He struggles.  Mystique watches from the far side
       of the room.

                           MAGNETO
                 Are you a ìGod-fearing man,î Senator?

       Kellyís reaction tells him he is certainly afraid of
       something right now.

                           MAGNETO (contíd)
                 That term always confused me.  As if
                 there were something to fear.

       Kelly looks around wildly, terrified.

                           MAGNETO (contíd)
                 God after all, is often defined as all-
                 forgiving.  A description I rather
                 like.  I think what you really are
                 afraid of...

       Magneto uses his mind to move Kellyís chair a little
       closer.  Kelly nearly loses it.

                           MAGNETO (contíd)
                 ...Is me and my kind.  The Brotherhood
                 of Mutants.

       He touches Kellyís face and Kelly recoils.

                           MAGNETO (contíd)
                 And this law.  Your mutant
                 registration act is only the
                 beginning.

                           KELLY
                 The intention of registration act -

                           MAGNETO
                 INTENTION?  Intention, Senator?  We
                 are talking about mankind here.  His
                 fear.  It is only a matter of time
                 before mutants will be herded into
                 camps.  Studied for weaknesses.  And
                 eventually wiped off the face of the
                 Earth.

       Kelly shakes his head.  There is nothing he can say to
       sway this man.

       Magneto turns and admires his machine.

                           MAGNETO (contíd)
                 Well, weíre much more giving than
                 that.  We simply want to share with
                 you... To help you understand.

                           KELLY
                 What is it you intend to do to me?

                           MAGNETO
                     (smiling)
                 Letís just say, God works too slowly.

       Magneto moves to the machine.

                           MAGNETO (contíd)
                 Youíre a leader, Senator Kelly -- you
                 set an example.  And if more of you...
                 were like more of us?  Well, youíll
                 see.

       Kelly watches as Magneto takes Loganís dog tag and places
       it atop a tube at the bottom of a large spire in the
       center of the room some thirty feet high.

       He walks toward the opposite side of the room and watches
       as the tag is raised to the top of the device, through
       the shaft.

                           MAGNETO (contíd)
                 Donít fear God, Senator.  And
                 certainly - most certainly... donít
                 fear me.

       A beat.

                           MAGNETO (contíd)
                 Not any more.

       ANGLE ON:

       MAGNETO raises his arms and a series of metal rings up
       from the machine platform that holds the dog tag.  With a
       slight motion of his hand, the rings begin to spin slowly
       gaining in speed as Magneto controls it with his power.

       The air around it ripples, gaining in intensity.

       WAVES OF MAGNETIC ENERGY POURS from Magnetoís hands
       toward the machine.

       Now, Magneto has the rings spinning around the dog tag at
       such speed, the rings themselves are no longer visible -
       merely a blur around the stationary tag.  Magneto lowers
       his hands.  The machine is now working on its own.

       Kellyís eyes grow wide with fear as the metal dog tag
       begins to glow.  Dull at first... the brightly... too
       brightly.

       The deafening whine of the machine builds louder and
       louder.

       Suddenly -- SILENCE

       FIVE SECONDS OF ABSOLUTE SILENCE.

       The sphere vanishes, enveloped in a light so white, it
       defies description.

       But Iíll try:

       A light that seems to ooze rather than radiate.  A light
       that fills the room as it expands outward and engulfs
       everything in sight.

       It is liquid light.  Creeping and unstoppable.

       From outside the room, Pyro and Sabretooth watch through
       the window.  It comes through, first casting its shadows
       darkly against the wall, then erasing them as it swallows
       them -  as though they were never there.

       INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT

       From under a door, the light leaks in, filling the room.

       All through the lair, air vents, keyholes, drainpipes and
       the like, the liquid light fills the lair to the gills.

       EXT. MAGNETOíS LAIR - NIGHT

       THROUGH THE TURRET ATOP THE LAIR, the light beams up into
       the night sky, shinning like a beacon for miles.

       Then the white light obscures all.  Fueled by this tiny
       piece of metal, the light extends like an ever growing
       bubble, out and up over the ocean.

       PULL BACK FROM THE SMALL ISLAND

       The bubble of white light is easily five miles across.

       INT. MACHINE ROOM - NIGHT

       Kelly grits his teeth, barely visible in the whiteness.

       Then it is gone.  He hangs his head in exhaustion.

       Magneto himself is a bit overwhelmed.  He looks at his
       own skin - no apparent change.  He shakes his head,
       blinks his eyes.

       Sabretooth and Pyro are also a bit struck by the display
       and they also seem a bit dazed.

       Magneto walks over and reaches into the still steaming
       metal device.  His hand comes out holding the dog tag -
       actually its remains.

       A frazzled, blackened wire, warped and spent.  Nothing
       more.  And this turns to dust in his fingers.

       Magneto has amazed even himself this time.

       The silence is shattered by a phone ringing.  Sabretooth
       picks it up.  He listens, then hands the phone to
       Magneto.

                           SABRETOOTH
                 Weíve found him.

       Magneto puts the phone to his ear.  He smiles.

                           MAGNETO
                 Where?

       ANGLE on Kelly, his skin glistening slightly, almost
       luminescent.  Pinker (healthier?) then it was when he
       came in.

                           KELLY
                 Oh... Oh God... what have you done to
                 me?

       Magneto hangs up the phone.  He crosses to Kelly, leans
       in and whispers in his ear.

                           MAGNETO
                 Welcome to the future... brother.

       Magneto stands, looks at his machine, then back at Kelly.

                           MAGNETO (contíd)
                 Now if youíll excuse me...  I have a
                 train to catch.

       EXT. TRAIN - NIGHT

       The silver Amtrack moves speedily through the dark
       countryside.

       INT. TRAIN - NIGHT

       A CONDUCTOR makes his way through a half filled car of
       commuters taking tickets.  He passes a restroom and exits
       the car.  He takes a seat.

       Logan emerges from the restroom, having avoided paying
       his fare.

       A few seats in front of him, in a grouping of seats that
       face one another, sit four large guys, early twenties --
       Theyíre the guys from your college named Brad that used
       to get drunk and try to drown freshmen in the toilets.
       Weíll call them BRADS 1, 2, 3, and 4.  They are drinking
       from beer cans in paper bags.

       Across the aisle from them sits a lone oddly pretty
       twenty year old girl.  Her name is ROGUE -- a dark-eyed
       and somewhat distant creature.  From the shawl around her
       head to her boots, layers of odd clothing wrap every inch
       of her body, except her face and hands.  She looks worn,
       it is the face of a runaway.  Next to her, a dirty duffle
       bag.

       The Brads are staring at Rogue, making lewd comments
       about her.  They have obviously been drinking for awhile.

                           BRAD 1
                 Hey.

       Rogue looks at him, then quickly looks away.

                           BRAD 1 (contíd)
                 Hey... Hey Iím talking to you.

       The Brads laugh amongst themselves at her reaction.

                           BRAD 2
                     (looking at her duffle bag)
                 Where are you going?

                           BRAD 1
                 Awww... look guys sheís shy.

                           BRAD 3
                 Maybe thatís why sheís alone.  Is that
                 why youíre alone?

       Brad 4, who is closest to Rogue, leans toward her.

                           BRAD 4
                 Iíll keep you company.

       Rogue is silent and turns her back on him, trying to
       ignore him.

                           BRAD 4 (contíd)
                 Hey...  Iím talking to you.

       Rogue continues to ignore him.  This gets Brad 4 angry.
       The other Brads watch his failure and laugh.

                           BRAD 4 (contíd)
                     (louder)
                 I said Iím talking to you!

       ANGLE ON: Logan, his ears picking up everything.

       Rogue looks down trying not to look at them.

       Brad 4 will not be ignored.  He reaches out to the one
       place which is not covered by clothing that he can reach -
       - Rogueís hand lying at her side.

                           BRAD 4 (contíd)
                     (louder still)
                 I said...!

       He grabs her hand.

       Suddenly, Brad 4ís eyes open wide as if heís in shock, an
       instant later, he COLLAPSES.

       Rogue reels back.

       Bradís 1, 2, and 3 stand up, they are angry.

                           BRAD 1
                 Hey, what did you do?

                           ROGUE
                 Donít touch me.

       Rogue stands, frightened and confused.  Brad blocks her
       in.

                           BRAD 3
                 Hey Brad, sheís a mutant!

       Rogue moves to get away, but Brad 1 shoves Rogue.  Rogue
       falls to the floor of the train, right next to Loganís
       feet.  Brad 1 moves toward her.

       Suddenly, Logan steps in front of Brad 1.

                           LOGAN
                 How about you sit down and leave the
                 kid alone, alright?

                           BRAD 1
                 Sheís a mutant.

                           LOGAN
                 Yeah, well, nobodyís perfect.

       ANGLE ON: Rogue, she gets up and huddles toward the rear
       of the train.

                           BRAD 1
                     (who is considerably larger
                      than Logan)
                 I think you should take a seat little
                 fella.

       He shoves Logan backward.  Logan gathers himself.  Brad 4
       is very weak but regaining consciousness.

       Brads 2 and 3 stand to back their friend against Logan.
       Itís now three against one.  All the passengers are
       watching --

                           LOGAN
                 Listen -- I donít want any trouble.

                           BRAD 1
                 Well you got trouble.

       Brad 1 slams his fist into Loganís stomach.  Logan grabs
       the manís fist and lifts him up and over, slamming him
       into the train floor.

       Brad 2 grabs a commuterís briefcase and smashes it on
       Loganís head.  Bursting open, its contents fly
       everywhere.

       Logan turns.  Brad 2 stares wide-eyed as the gash on
       Loganís head starts to heal.

       Suddenly, Brad 1 is up.  He grabs Logan around the neck
       from behind.  He holds Logan in his head lock while Brad
       2 and 3 start punching  him in the stomach and face.
       Logan is taking quite a beating and naturally the entire
       train of people are doing nothing.

       ANGLE ON: Loganís eyes, his pupils are getting smaller.
       His brow furrows like a wolf.  A low guttural GROWL.

       Suddenly rage -- PRIMAL RAGE

       Loganís feet kick out, his left foot strikes Brad 1 in
       the face knocking him backward, while his right foot
       hooks around Brad 2ís head dragging him forward.  With
       his left hand Logan grabs Brad 2 by the throat, squeezing
       the esophagus.

       Brad 2 is paralyzed.  His eyes roll up as the oxygen is
       cut off.  Brad 2 collapses.

       ANGLE ON: Brad 3 running out of the car with the other
       passengers.  A TRANSIT COP pushes past the fleeing
       passengers, into the car.

       Brad 1 still bear hugs Logan from behind.  Logan reaches
       pushing his knuckles against Brad 1ís leg.  Suddenly:

       SHOOK -- the sound of metal extending.  Brad 1 howls in
       pain.  SHOOK -- the sound of metal retracting.

       Brad 1 releases Logan and stares down at three punctured
       holes in his leg.  Logan wheels around, kicks him to the
       floor, and punches him.

       All eyes in the train are on Logan, as he raises his
       fist.

       SHOOK -- Logan extends his claws.

       Logan is at the peak of his rage.  The passengers stare
       in disbelief.  Even Rogue is astonished.

                           TRANSIT COP
                 Freeze... transit police.  Drop your
                 weapon.

       Logan pauses, only for a second.  Brad 1 is wailing for
       his life.

       But rage has taken over.  Logan raises his blades to
       finish what he started.

       Suddenly, THE TRAIN LURCHES VIOLENTLY.  Logan goes flying
       backward.

       EXT. TRAIN - NIGHT

       The train has been brought to a sudden stop -- but the
       wheels are still turning.  Finally, they are shut down.

       INT. TRAIN CAR - NIGHT

       The lights are out.  Everyone gathers themselves.  Then
       comes a low grinding creak.  The sound of metal bending.
       Rivets popping.

       EXT. TRAIN - NIGHT

       Like the top of a sardine can, the entire side wall of
       the train car is peeled off.  Revealing the terrified
       passengers inside -- and Magneto, Sabretooth, Mystique
       Toad and Pyro on the outside.  With a final thrust, the
       air RIPPLES and Magneto tosses the car wall to the side.

       Passengers from the other cars stare wide-eyed out their
       windows.  The train has stopped at a railroad crossing,
       the gates are down.

                           MAGNETO
                 You can come out now, Logan.  Youíre
                 among friends.

       The transit cop rises to his feet, brandishing his
       pistol.

                           TRANSIT COP
                 Freeze!

       With a turn of his finger, Magneto draws the pistol to
       him.  The cop holds tight and is yanked off the train,
       onto the ground.  With another twist of his hand, Magneto
       makes the gun leap from the copís grasp and HOVER,
       pointing at the copís head.

                           MAGNETO
                 You Homo Sapiens and your guns.

       The gun cocks.

                           XAVIER (O.S.)
                 Thatís enough, Max!

       All turn to see Xavier, seated in his wheelchair --
       flanked by Cyclops, Jean and Storm.  All, save Xavier,
       are in uniform.

       THUNDER RUMBLES ACROSS THE SKY

       ANGLE ON: Storm, a GUST OF WIND.

                           MAGNETO
                 Iíll never understand your regard for
                 them, Charles.

                           XAVIER
                 And Iíll never understand terrorists.

                           MAGNETO
                 I am trying to save our kind, Charles.
                 You should do the same.

                           XAVIER
                 Not at the cost of lives, Max.

       Xavierís metal chair is gripped by magnetic forces.  It
       shakes and begins to inch towards Magneto.

                           MAGNETO
                 Magneto.

       The chair is pulled closer to Magneto.  Cyclops steps
       forward.  Xavier need not turn to know help is coming.

       Magneto sees and respects Cyclopsís power.  The chair
       stops moving.

                           XAVIER
                     (to Cyclops)
                 Itís alright... itís alright.

       Magneto glances at Storm, then Cyclops.

                           MAGNETO
                 The two in Alaska.  Just how do you
                 people manage to be in the right place
                 at the right time?  Still tinkering
                 with Cerebro?

                           XAVIER
                     (referring to Logan)
                 What do you want with him?

       Magneto smiles now, tapping his METAL HELMET.

                           MAGNETO
                 Canít read my mind?

       Xavierís expression falters.  It appears as if the helmet
       has been made to block Xavier from doing just that.

                           MAGNETO (contíd)
                 Iíll tell you something, Charles, we
                 are more alike now than we were when
                 we started.

                           XAVIER
                 Is that so?

                           MAGNETO
                 Still trying to make the world safe
                 for our kind.  Still trying to find a
                 way to introduce ourselves --
                 definitively.

                           XAVIER
                 You definition of definitive was
                 always a bit extreme for me, Max.
                 What is it like these days?

                           MAGNETO
                 Letís just say that I am out to make
                 some radical changes.  Now come on
                 Charles.  For old times sake, for your
                 sake...  Leave him to me.

       Logan slowly rises from the huddled passengers.
       Sabretooth fighting the urge to move on him.  Logan
       glares back at Sabretooth.

                           MAGNETO (contíd)
                 Ahh... there you are brother.  I
                 believe you possess something I am
                 very much in need of.

       Just then, SABRETOOTH ROARS UNCONTROLLABLY and punches
       Toad in the stomach, doubling him over.  Oddly - Toad is
       laughing.  He stands upright.

                           TOAD
                 Do it again.

       Another roar and another punch.  Toad is crying and
       laughing at the same time.

                           TOAD (contíd)
                 Oh God it hurts.  Do it again.

       Magneto watches this, momentarily stunned.

       Suddenly, Pyro grabs hold of his face.

                           PYRO
                 IíM BLIND.

       And Mystique MORPHS into a small child and begins tugging
       at Magnetoís pant leg.

                           MYSTIQUE
                 I have to go to the bathroom.

       Magneto looks at the cause of it all: XAVIER, HIS EYES
       CONCENTRATING, HAS ALL OF MAGNETOíS MINIONS UNDER HIS
       PSYCHIC CONTROL.

       Cyclops cannot help laughing.  Storm and Jean smile.

       Magneto is furious.

                           MAGNETO
                 If I could make you understand.  If
                 you could just be made to see it the
                 way I do.  The way itís going to be.

                           XAVIER
                 The way what is going to be?

                           MAGNETO
                 Iím going to change the world with or
                 without you as a witness, Charles.
                     (Points to Logan)
                 And this one gets a front row seat.

                           XAVIER
                 What do you mean to do?

       And Magneto steps back a little further.  His oddly
       behaving consorts follow.

                           MAGNETO
                 This checkmate goes to you.  I didnít
                 want to hurt anyone.  But you leave me
                 no choice.

                           XAVIER
                 WHAT DO YOU MEAN TO DO?

       Sabretooth and Toad walk away, still with the punching
       and asking to be punched.

       Magneto takes the little girl/Mystique by the hand and
       the blind Pyro by the arm and leads them away,
       humiliated, to their waiting helicopter.

       Xavier turns back to Logan, still standing in the train
       car, amidst all the huddled passengers.  Suddenly, all
       the passengers except Rogue lay on the floor and seats
       and go to sleep.  A few of them even snore.

                           XAVIER (contíd)
                 Now will you come back with us?

       A look crosses Loganís face.  Uncomfortable.

                           LOGAN
                 Look, I appreciate your concern.  But,
                 I do better on my own.

       Xavier indicates the wreckage of the train.

                           XAVIER
                 You got less than sixty miles today.
                 Iíll make you a deal.  Two days.
                 If we havenít figured out what Magneto
                 wants with you by then...  Iíll bring
                 you back myself.

       Logan looks up at Xavier suspiciously, hating that he is
       making sense.  Xavier moves closer.

       Logan looks over at Rogue, covered in her layers of
       clothes.  Storm is helping her off the train, yet taking
       care not to touch her skin.

                           LOGAN
                 What are you going to do with her?

       Xavier looks to Rogue.  A warmth comes over his face.  An
       look of understanding.  At a glance he has read her mind.
       He knows her pain -- her struggle.  Rogue looks to
       Xavier.  Their eyes meet.

                           XAVIER
                 Rogue is a beautiful girl, with an
                 extraordinary power.  One that even
                 her own family isnít able to accept.
                 Sheís been on her own for weeks now,
                 searching for a home.  A place to
                 belong.

       Xavier turns to Logan.

                           XAVIER (contíd)
                 -- Weíre going to give her that.

       Logan looks at rogue, contemplating this.  Then to
       Xavier.

                           LOGAN
                 Forty-eight hours, old man.  But if
                 you cross me, I wonít feel any guilt
                 about what I do to you.

                           XAVIER
                 Deal.

       Logan eyes the rest of the gang until he settles his gaze
       on Jean.  He offers a faint seductive smile.  This is not
       lost on Cyclops.

       INT. MAGNETOíS LAIR - CELL - LATER - NIGHT

       A cell with bars, but no visible door.

       Kelly is hunched over his toilet, heaving.  His suit is
       rumpled and dirty, showing signs that time has passed.

       There is a television just outside the door:

       We see SEVERAL NEWS HELICOPTERS circling a platform built
       against the backdrop of the main entrance to Ellis
       Island.  We see massive security measures, the likes of
       which have never been attempted, being prepared.

       (Voice plays over the rest of the scene)

                           NEWSCASTER (V.O.)
                 Is there such a thing as too much
                 security?  A possible complication
                 adding to the United Nations
                 Anniversary is the sheer number of
                 security personnel for what will be
                 the largest single summit in the
                 history of the planet.

       He walks towards the cell and tries to look down the
       hall, pressing his face to the bars.

                           NEWSCASTER (V.O. CONTíD)
                 While the Secret Service has never had
                 difficulty handling one or even
                 several world leaders, it has never
                 had to handle the daunting task of
                 watching over all of them.

       It is only then that he hears a slight crack and his head
       squeezes between the bars like a soft-shelled egg.  He
       gasps in pain, but more from shock.  He pulls his head
       back with some difficulty and POP, it squeezes right back
       through.

                           KELLY
                 What have you bastards done to me?

       Kelly is horrified.  Disgusted.  He paces the cell,
       unable to comprehend what has happened to himself.

       It is only when he hears the sound of a HELICOPTER IN THE
       DISTANCE that he reacts.  He starts to panic, then
       collects himself.  Then he goes over to the bars again.
       He pauses, afraid... then:

       He pops his head through again.  He turns his shoulder
       toward the bars and begins to push.  His feet slip in the
       floor and his fingers stretch and crack inside, then his
       ribs begin to pop one by one with the brittleness of
       undercooked spaghetti.  It is agonizing, but Kelly
       finally manages to pull his horribly-altered body through
       the bars.

       INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT

       Kellyís whole chest and pelvis are slightly flattened
       beneath his clothes, but with a hideous crunching sound,
       they seem to inflate again back to normal.

       Kelly looks at his body with a mixture of fascination and
       disgust.

                           VOICE
                 HEY.

       Kelly turns and screams.  Blob has just walked into the
       room and lunges, grabbing him by the arms.  Kelly is
       enveloped in this fat, hulking mass.  He manages to keep
       one hand free and all he can do is push it against Blobís
       face.  It is futile.  Until...

       Steam begins to come off Blobís face.  And Blob SCREAMS
       IN PAIN.

       EXT. HELIPAD - NIGHT

       Senator Kellyís helicopter, which has obviously been
       pilfered for Magnetoís use, lands.

       Magneto, Sabretooth, Pyro, Mystique (no Toad) all climb
       out, having returned from their ill-fated attempt to get
       Logan.

       INT. HALLWAY - ELSEWHERE - NIGHT

       Kelly peers down the hall where we first went on our way
       to meet Magneto.

       Kelly, with only that way to go, does so, passing once
       again the odd assortment of machines, very reminiscent of
       the one he was exposed to.

       He hears voices coming toward him and he looks around
       wildly, wondering what to do.  Shadows foretell the
       arrival of the brotherhood headed this way.

       Kelly turns to run back from where he cam from.

       INT. HALLWAY - ELSEWHERE - NIGHT

       Magneto and Sabretooth come walking from the other end of
       the hall and pass the very spot where we just saw Kelly.
       No sign of him.

       INT. CELL - NIGHT

       From which Kelly has escaped.  The bars bend to make room
       for Magneto as he walks into the room.

                           MAGNETO
                 How are we feeling today, Senator?
                 Advanced, I hope...

       But he freezes when he actually enters the room.

       First, he sees that Blob is laying on the floor with a
       purple, welt-like hand print across his face.  It is
       blistered and hideous.  Blob is gasping for air.

       Magneto looks and sees the cell is empty.  He looks at
       Sabretooth.

                           MAGNETO (contíd)
                 I want him alive.

                           SABRETOOTH
                 Iíll find him.

                           MAGNETO
                 ALIVE.

       And Sabretooth bolts back from where they came.

       EXT. MAGNETOíS LAIR - NIGHT

       Kelly hits the fresh air, looking around wildly.  He runs
       for the edge of a cliff high over the ocean.

       He raises his hands, we see his palms are covered with
       those wicked spines and they are dripping a venomous
       fluid not too different in color from the wound on Blobís
       face.

       But then suddenly, something is wrong.  Kelly buckles,
       clutching his stomach again.  He squelches what would
       have been a scream of agony.

       He looks at his palms and the spikes are gone.

       Kelly hears footsteps.  Suddenly out of the darkness
       Sabretooth barrels toward him.

       Kelly turns and LEAPS.  Sabretooth comes to the edge of
       the cliff.

       When he looks over, Kellyís body has vanished.  Swallowed
       by the sea.

       Only his clothes remain on the rocks below.

       INT. LOGANíS ROOM - NIGHT

       Jean shows Logan the simple dorm cube with a bed and a
       small desk.  Jean opens the door for Logan and he
       inspects the sparse surroundings grimly.  Cyclops stands
       just outside the door - eavesdropping.

                           JEAN
                 Anything else I can get you?

                           LOGAN
                 Some cigars.  Case of beer.

                           JEAN
                 Thereís no smoking or drinking on the
                 school grounds.

                           LOGAN
                 I wonít light the cigars - how about
                 that?

                           JEAN
                 Iíll see what I can do -- You should
                 get some sleep.  Even with your
                 healing ability, youíre going to be
                 hurting for a while.

                           LOGAN
                 What if I like the pain?

       Jean doesnít know what to make of that.  She is about to
       leave, then pauses.

                           JEAN
                 The Professor said you were a solider.
                 Actually, I believe he used the word
                 mercenary.

                           LOGAN
                 Yeah?  Well I donít like to talk about
                 my past.

                           JEAN
                 Maybe, the Professor could help you
                 with that.

                           LOGAN
                 By reading my thoughts?

                           JEAN
                 If necessary.

                           LOGAN
                     (smirks)
                 What if theyíre naughty?

       Jean smiles politely at his knowing glance.

                           JEAN
                 Get some shut-eye, slick.

       She shuts the door.

       INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT

       Jean hesitates at the door, thinking.  Smiling.  She
       turns and only then does she realize Cyclops is standing
       there.

       She is startled.

                           JEAN
                 Scott.. I -

                           CYCLOPS
                 I donít like him being here.

                           JEAN
                 What are you talking about?

                           CYCLOPS
                 You saw what happened tonight.  You
                 think Magneto wonít come after him
                 again.  You think he wonít come here
                 if necessary.  This is a school, for
                 Godís sake.

                           JEAN
                 If Magneto is planning to use Logan
                 for some terrible purpose itís our
                 responsibility to do something.

       Cyclops shakes his head.

                           JEAN (contíd)
                 Whatís wrong?  Thereís something else
                 bothering you.

       Cyclops gets closer to Jean.  She puts her hand on his
       chest.

                           CYCLOPS
                 I have a bad feeling about this.

       Jean leans in slowly and kisses Cyclops just beside his
       mouth

                           JEAN
                 You know I love you, Scott.

       Cyclops pulls her close.  The hold each other.

       INT.  LOGANíS ROOM - NIGHT

       E.C.U. Loganís ear.  His super-sensitive hearing has
       picked up the whole conversation.

       Logan looks over on the bed and sees a new sketchbook and
       several pencils.

       A small note is attached.


       					I hope you donít mind.  I understand this
       					helps you relax.

                                       - X

       Logan shakes his head.

       INT.  XAVIERíS OFFICE - LATER - NIGHT

       A white light board.  Beastís blue furry hand slides a
       long, full-body x-ray in place.

       Beast is showing Loganís x-rays to Cyclops, Storm, Jean
       and Xavier.

                           BEAST
                 Adamantium.  Until today I thought it
                 to be a myth.  Impenetrable,
                 unbendable, resistant to the most
                 extreme heat, cold, indestructible.

       Beast points to the x-ray.

                           BEAST (CONT'D)
                 Itís been grafted to his entire
                 skeleton.

                           XAVIER
                 He also has accelerated healing
                 abilities - uncharted regenerative
                 capability, making his age impossible
                 to determine.  He could very well be
                 older than I am.

                           STORM
                 Is the Adamantium part of his
                 mutation?

                           XAVIER
                 No.  Someone put it there, relying on
                 his healing abilities to keep him
                 alive.

                           CYCLOPS
                 What do you think Magneto wants with
                 him?

       Xavier wheels himself to the window, starring out, deep
       in thought.

                           XAVIER
                 Iím not entirely sure itís ìhimî that
                 Magneto wants.

       ANGLE ON: X-ray of Loganís Adamantium skeleton.

       INT. MANSION - NIGHT

       Rogue.  The waifish young thing who hides so well in the
       shadows seems more comfortable to be moving through the
       mansion at night.

       She passes through the halls and rooms not making a sound
       in her strangely-swathed body suit.

       INT. LOGANíS ROOM - NIGHT

       She creaks a door open slowly, letting a shaft of dim
       light slice the darkness.

       The light shines across a nightstand.  Rogue stares down
       at the notepad, a sketch it.  It is of an animal, small
       but fierce - a wolverine.

       She walks in to a figure laying in the bed and stands
       over him.  Over Logan.

       He lays under a single sheet, sweating, his eyes moving
       quickly this way and that in R.E.M.  His hands twitch.

       Rogue leans closer.

       PUSH IN ON LOGANíS EYES AS THEY MOVE UNDER THE LIDS.

       FLASH - DREAM SEQUENCE

       INT. MILITARY LAB - THE PAST - NIGHT

       Like none we have ever seen thus far.  In fact, judging
       by most of the instruments here, we are looking at a
       laboratory some fifty years old.

       Logan looks down and we can see his body, naked, strapped
       to a table.

       A hand puts a mask over his mouth and -

       BLACK

       He awakens -

       STILL LOGANíS P.O.V.

       He struggles weakly with restraints as doctors in lab
       coats and thick, red rubber gloves stand over him taking
       notes, paying very little attention to him at all.

       On the other side of the room is a huge vat filled with
       some kind of molten metal.
       At the base of the vat is a giant electromagnet
       generating a huge gyroscope which created enormous
       friction energy - the apparent source of the intense heat
       for melting the metal in the vat.

       AGAIN THE MASK PUTS HIM UNDER AND:

       BLACK

       Awake again, but this time sinking into water -
       restrained completely now.

       Logan looks down and gets only a glance of his body,
       seeing that he is a series of incisions from head to toe -
       literally split open - the flesh held back with hundreds
       of clamps.

       HE SINKS INTO THE STRANGE LIQUID - LIKE WATER BUT THICK
       AND VISCOUS.

       And the sound of a DROWNING SCREAM.

       AND THE METAL IS POURED IN AFTER HIM.

       THE SOUND OF MOLTEN METAL HITTING LIQUID IS UNNERVING.
       Mixed with screams, it is unbearable.

       INT. LOGANíS ROOM - NIGHT

       SCREAMING

       Loganís screaming as he comes to.

       Loganís eyes FLASH OPEN.  He looks up and sees a figure
       looming over him.  In a flash he reacts.

       THUD.  Nothing more.  Then silence.

       The door bursts open and Cyclops stands in the doorway
       shocked.  Frozen.  Jean is next and finally Storm.  They
       can only stare.

       Logan sits upright in bed, CLAWS EXTENDED, INTO ROGUEíS
       CHEST.  She is literally frozen at the end of his arm.

       Finally, Cyclops breaks the silence and moves to grab
       her.

                           STORM
                 DONíT TOUCH HER.

       Cyclops freezes.

       Logan finally pulls his claws free and retracts them.
       Rogue staggers, she pitches forward and touches his face
       gently with her hands, as though she would like him to be
       the last thing she sees on this Earth.

       Logan and Rogue, locked in a fatal moment of tenderness
       snaring a look of loneliness that only they can
       understand.

       But suddenly, Logan seems to change.

       And before he can say another word, he begins to tremble,
       then he starts to howl in pain.

       Rogue SNAPS BACK, mouth open in a gaping, silent scream.
       What sound comes out does not match the expression at
       all.  Merely a gasp, like steam escaping.  Through the
       huge slash in her clothes, we see the wound on her chest
       slowly vanish.

       Before long, she transforms back into a healthy young
       girl with no sign of injury.

       Then, her escaping breath begins to accelerate, much in
       the way Loganís did - too much like Loganís did.  It is
       as if she has taken in his trait of berserker rage.  Soon
       she is smashing things all around her.  One hand rakes
       the wallpaper like claws.

       Finally, she gets a hold of herself, becoming the
       introverted Rogue we all know so well.

       Then she stands slowly, looks at the others.

       And she runs from the room.  Storm runs after her.

       The rest turn to Logan, who lays on the floor,
       convulsing.

       Jean goes to help him.  She looks back at Cyclops.  His
       expression makes it clear that his worst fears about
       Logan have come to pass.

       EXT. PUBLIC BEACH - DAY

       A familiar scene of suburban escapism.  Crowded enough
       that most people can move about unnoticed.

       In fact, most people do not notice the very large
       jellyfish shooting through the water at remarkable speed.
       And only a few notice the COMPLETELY TRANSPARENT MAN
       emerging from the water.

       It is Senator Kelly, and he resembles in many ways a
       jellyfish.  His skin and innards are clear and gooey.  It
       is only when he comes completely and naked out of the
       water that he returns to somewhat normal.

       He walks up to the beach and people recoil from the very
       sight of him.  Pointing, whispering.  Then just laughing
       at the naked man.

       Kelly grabs a towel off an empty chair, a Hawaiian shirt
       off another.

       Suddenly, he buckles, grabbing his stomach and lurching
       away in terrible pain.

       He barely pauses when he hears a childís voice in semi-
       whisper:

                           CHILDíS VOICE
                 Mom, is that a mutant?

       INT. HALLWAY - DUSK

       Storm and Logan walk down the hall.  Logan is wearing
       sweats.  He has obviously just woken up.  The sun is low
       in the horizon and the hall is suffused with an orange
       glow.

       Students pass by them.  By now, the students have heard
       rumors about what happened the night before.  They watch
       Logan fearfully as they pass by him.

                           LOGAN
                 Why is everybody up at sunrise?

                           STORM
                 The sun is setting, Logan.  Youíve
                 been asleep for nineteen hours.

                           LOGAN
                 What did she do to me?

                           STORM
                 She borrowed your power to save her
                 life.  When she touches someone, she
                 absorbs their strengths -- their
                 gifts.  In your case -- your ability
                 to heal.  Thatís why she keeps her
                 body covered.

                           LOGAN
                 I felt like she almost killed me.

                           STORM
                 If she held on any longer she could
                 have.

                           LOGAN
                 And you think it helps calling her
                 Rogue?

       Storm shakes her head, but remains patient.

                           STORM
                 Weíve learned to embrace what we are
                 rather than hide it like an
                 affliction.  For some, it has become
                 their identity.  You mock the names
                 these people choose but they wear them
                 as badges of pride.

       They arrive at the door to the gym.

                           LOGAN
                 Inspiring -- Now what am I doing here?

                           CYCLOPS (O.S.)
                 I wanted to talk to you.

       Logan turns and sees Cyclops.

                           CYCLOPS (contíd)
                 Storm, would you excuse us please?

                           STORM
                 Of course.

       She exits.

                           CYCLOPS
                 Letís take a walk.

       Cyclops begins to walk away in the other direction.

       Logan just watches him go.  After a moment, he decides it
       might be more interesting to see where this is going.  He
       follows.  They walk across the hall to:

       INT. GYMNASIUM - NIGHT

       On first glance, the gym looks really average.  A fairly
       standard boxing ring in the middle.  A fairly standard
       weight set nearby.

       Then you notice the weights themselves are abnormally
       large.

       100.  200.  300.  400 pounds.  All the way up to 2000.
       And that is just one stack.

       Cyclops enters first with Logan coming in behind him.

                           CYCLOPS
                 How long have you been in Alaska?

                           LOGAN
                 I donít remember.  Is that what you
                 wanted to ask me?

       Logan is barely through the door when Cyclops whips
       around on Logan and thumps his finger into his chest.

                           CYCLOPS
                 I just wanted to make you clear on
                 something.  Personally, I donít care
                 what Magneto wants with you.  He can
                 take those claws of yours and use them
                 for Barbecue skewers.  What I do care
                 about is the safety of this group.
                 The Professor is in charge, and after
                 the Professor, thereís me.  So, for
                 the remainder of your time here,
                 youíre going to keep that killer
                 instinct of yours locked down so no
                 one else gets hurt.

       Beat.

                           LOGAN
                     (smirks)
                 Iíve served with men like you before.
                 Methodical.  Systematic -- Naive.  You
                 know what happens to those men in a
                 real fight?

                           CYCLOPS
                 You know, you --

                           LOGAN
                 Shut up.  I got no interest in you,
                 Xavier,
                     (he points mockingly at the
                      Xís on Cyclopsí uniform)
                 or your... X-Men.

       Logan takes him in for a moment.

                           LOGAN (contíd)
                 And I donít think this has anything to
                 do with my ìkiller instinct.î  You
                 just donít like the way Iím looking at
                 your girl -- Or maybe you donít like
                 the way sheís looking back.  And maybe
                 you think youíre man enough to do
                 something about it.

       Cyclops is enraged.  A red light begins to glow around
       the edge of his visor and the ruby-quartz lens brightens.
       We can faintly hear the low hum of immense power that is
       now barely contained.  Before Cyclops can even react,
       Logan puts his fist against Cyclopsí throat.  SHOOK!
       Logan extends one claw up one side of Cyclopsí neck.  He
       smiles.

                           LOGAN (contíd)
                 Címon sport.  You think you can blow
                 the meat off my bones before I gut
                 you?  Letís find out.

       The air is now charged with tension.  The two men are
       about to attack when-

                           XAVIER (O.S.)
                 Cyclops!

       Logan whirls and sees Xavier regarding them sternly.
       Logan turns his building anger on Xavier.

                           LOGAN
                 I have a question for you, Chuck.
                 Whatís the point?

       Xavier sits calmly as Logan, claws still extended,
       marches over to him.

                           XAVIER
                 The point of what?

                           LOGAN
                 This.  This whole God damn thing.
                     (derisively, at Cyclops)
                 Making yourselves into some sort of
                 ìteamî of super-powered freaks.
                 Teaching wayward mutants about
                 classical literature.  For what?

       Logan continues to advance on Xavier.  Cyclops moves to
       stop Logan, but Xavier waves him off.

                           XAVIER
                 The point is to step into a more
                 evolved position of social
                 responsibility.  To recognize that
                 there is a world out there and that we
                 mutants are as much a part of it as
                 normal human beings.

                           LOGAN
                 What if it never happens?  What if
                 theyíre so afraid of us that we become
                 the enemy? -- This place is gonna be
                 one giant cemetery.

       Xavier has heard this argument before.

                           XAVIER
                 Now thatís Magneto talking.

                           LOGAN
                 No.  Thatís me talking.  And you know
                 what?  Itís only been thirty-two hours
                 and you still have no idea what this
                 guy wants with me.

                           XAVIER
                 I believe he wants you for your
                 Adamantium.

       Logan raises his hand to his chest grasping for something
       that no longer hangs from his neck.

                           XAVIER (contíd)
                 Youíre thinking of your dog tag.  It
                 was made of Adamantium wasnít it?

                           JEAN (O.S.)
                 Professor.

       Logan turns and sees Jean walking towards them.

                           XAVIER
                 What is it?

                           JEAN
                 Rogueís missing.

       Logan looks at Jean with concern.

       INT. CORRIDOR - NIGHT

       A long, dark subterranean corridor with gleaming walls
       and floor.  Well lit and strangely echoless.

       Logan follows Xavier, who are in turn followed by Storm,
       Cyclops and Jean to a thick steel door at the end of the
       hall.

                           LOGAN
                 Where are we going?

                           XAVIER
                 To find Rogue.

                           LOGAN
                 How?

                           XAVIER
                 The brainwaves of mutants are quite
                 different than those of the average
                 human being.

       At Xavierís eye level is a black screen with a chin-rest
       like you see at the eye doctor.  Xavier rests his head in
       it and the screen lights up.

                           XAVIER (contíd)
                 Cerebro amplifies my power.  It allows
                 me to browse the worldís consciousness
                 and find the genetically enhanced.

       A vertical beam scans across his eye and a picture of
       Xavierís retina appears on the screen next to a
       computerized image of the same.  The two images overlap
       and match perfectly.

                           XAVIER (contíd)
                 This is how I found you.

       A small beep and a loud KNOCK of tumblers rolling and the
       vault door opens.

       They walk inside.

       INT. CEREBRO - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

       They come into a room with a high sphered ceiling -
       entirely black.

       In the center of the room is a huge - for lack of a
       better term - device.  Part computer, part super-
       structure, it is the sort of precision tangle of metal
       and wire that would make Da Vinci weep.  It has a space
       in the bottom that seems to fit Xavier and his chair
       perfectly.  Suspended above its center -- a web of wires,
       tubes, and cables all connecting to the heart of the
       device -- a CHROME SKULLCAP.

       Logan slowly circles the device.

       Logan looks at Xavier, perhaps even a little impressed.

                           LOGAN
                 You designed this yourself?

                           XAVIER
                 Actually, Magneto helped me put it
                 together.

                           LOGAN
                 He helped you?

                           XAVIER
                 We were friends once...  But that was
                 a long time ago.

       Jean, Logan, Cyclops and Storm watch as Xavier fits his
       wheelchair into the huge machine, and the chrome skull
       cap lowers onto the Professorís head, fitting like a
       second skin.  It comes to life.  What was dark and
       menacing is now a brilliant explosion of colored lights.

       CLOSE UP ON:

       XAVIER - into and through his eyes and:

       EXT. SPACE - NIGHT

       Closing in rapidly on the planet Earth.

       Passing into its atmosphere, making a few orbits, all the
       while hearing the deafening voices of billions.

       Every country, every city, every town, berg, hamlet and
       village.

       Every language.

       Every thought.

       The voices descend to a sizeable crowd of millions, then
       thousands, gradually working their way to one.

       EXT. SKY - OVER WESTCHESTER - NIGHT

       Down a tree-lined road and around a corner into a parking
       lot.

       Single out a figure that - by the clothes - can only be
       Rogue.  Close in faster and faster, lower and lower until
       we go right through the back of her head to:

       BLACK

       SILENCE

                           ROGUE (O.S.)
                 I donít belong...  I donít belong...
                 Iím sorry... so sorry... thereís
                 nowhere...

       INT. CEREBRO - NIGHT

       Xavierís eyes open.

                           XAVIER
                 Iíve found her, Westchester Mall.

                           LOGAN
                 Iíll go.

                           CYCLOPS
                 No...  Iíll go.

       Logan looks over to Jean.

                           LOGAN
                 O.K. sport... you go.

       INT. WESTCHESTER MALL - NIGHT

       A mother and child wander in a typical shopping daze.

       PULL OUT TO REVEAL

       Crowds of shoppers mill about, a typical crowded evening
       at the mall.  Rogue comes up the escalator, wandering
       through them all.

       She walks under a high-sphered glass ceiling, revealing
       the night sky outside.

       She walks over to a Victoriaís Secret store and looks up
       at the mannequins in the windows who wear almost nothing
       at all.  Quite a contrast from her own, stifling garb.
       She touches the glass as though trying to reach them,
       then she moves on.

       ROGUEíS P.O.V.

       She looks all around the mall at the many oblivious
       people here.  Children playing tag on one side.  A young
       couple holding hands.

       Human contact all around.

       She walks past a small child, her hand nearly brushing
       the girlís hair.

       Rogue takes a seat on a bench, alone.

       A figure comes into frame.

                           STORM
                 Rogue.

       Rogue looks up and sees Storm standing right in front of
       her.  Her eyes dart around, looking for a way out.

                           STORM (contíd)
                 You donít have to run.

       Finally, Rogue surrenders.

                           ROGUE
                 Iím sorry.  Iím not like the rest of
                 you -- Iím tired of hurting people.

       She starts to cry now.

                           STORM
                 Itís okay.

                           ROGUE
                 Why did I have to be like this?  What
                 purpose does it serve?

       And when Rogue looks up, she sees another figure - this
       one filling the frame behind Storm.

       A huge clawed hand grabs Storm around the throat and
       lifts her up as she struggles in vain.

       INT. MALL - LOWER LEVEL - NIGHT

       Cyclops looks up and sees Storm is being CHOKED BY
       SABRETOOTH, her feet not touching the ground.

       Rogue is frozen with fear.

       He tries to get a shot with his visor, but too many
       people are in the way.

       INT. MALL - UPPER LEVEL - NIGHT

       Sabretooth smiles as Storm struggles to turn.  He
       whispers in her ear.

                           SABRETOOTH
                 Scream for me.

       CLOSE UP ON:

       STORMíS EYES as the life is being squeezed out of her.

       INT. XAVIERíS OFFICE - NIGHT

       MIRROR SHOT OF XAVIERíS EYES

       Suddenly, Xavier touches his throat, then raises a
       shaking hand to his head.

                           XAVIER
                 Dear God.

       Xavier wheels himself from the room.

       INT. MALL - LOWER LEVEL - NIGHT

       Cyclops has a clear shot now.  His eyes start to glow
       brightly.

       Suddenly, a familiar movement on the pedestal behind him.
       Toad has been camouflaged the entire time.  He comes down
       and FLICKS HIS LIZARD-LIKE TONGUE, snatching the visor
       from Cyclopsí face.

       Deep red light far greater than anything we have ever
       seen before comes blasting out of cyclopsí eyes without
       any sort of control, as if a fire hydrant had been ripped
       from the ground.

       His head comes back and the light blows the whole of the
       glass ceiling to smithereens, bringing it down on
       panicking shoppers who scatter.

       Toad leaps to the second level and then again out of
       sight.

       INT. MALL - UPPER LEVEL - NIGHT

       Sabretooth reacts, surprised by the sudden shift.  This
       gives Storm one last chance to breath.

       We notice now that something is happening to her body.

       INT. MALL - LOWER LEVEL - NIGHT

       Cyclops stumbles helpless, his eyes are shut to prevent
       further destruction.

                           CYCLOPS
                 GET OUT OF THE WAY.  GET OUT OF THE
                 WAY.

       INT. MALL - UPPER LEVEL - NIGHT

       Storm, nearly lifeless now, struggles with what little
       strength she has to get free of Sabretooth.  He relishes
       the slow kill.

       But suddenly ALL THE HAIR ON HIS BODY STANDS ON END.
       Sabretooth is momentarily confused.

       Stormís eyes open wide as her body convulses.

       BOOM

       A huge bolt of lightning shoot from her body into
       Sabretoothís chest, knocking him back in shock.  Storm
       falls to the ground, not breathing.

       Sabretooth, stunned and scorched, gets to his feet and
       smiles at his handiwork.  He is about to move in and
       finish them both when the rumble of a helicopter can be
       heard above.

       He looks up and sees SENATOR KELLYíS HELICOPTER passing
       over the hold in the roof.  Sabretooth leaps up and pulls
       himself out of the opening.

       Toad is a leap behind.

       Rogue rushes to Storm, struggling with how to give her
       mouth to mouth, CPR, anything to resuscitate her without
       touching.  She is starting to panic now.  She looks
       around, but anyone still left in the mall is running for
       the doors.

                           ROGUE
                 SOMEONE HELP ME.  SHEíS NOT BREATHING.

       INT. MALL - LOWER LEVEL - NIGHT

       Cyclops stumbles blind and helpless, covering his eyes.
       He hears Rogue screaming.

                           CYCLOPS
                 ROGUE?

                           ROGUE (O.S.)
                 HELP ME.  STORM ISNíT BREATHING.

       Cyclops tries to find a way up, but he trips over all the
       debris, helpless.

                           CYCLOPS
                 YOU HAVE TO COME AND GET ME.  I CANíT
                 SEE.

       EXT. STREETS - NIGHT

       Xavier is in a specially designed car that enables him to
       drive solely with his hands.  He races towards the mall.

       INT. MALL - UPPER LEVEL - NIGHT

       Rogue is talking, walking backwards towards Storm, trying
       her best not to lay a hand on Cyclops.

                           ROGUE
                 Here, here, here... a little left.
                 Careful.

       ANGLE ON:

       Cyclops drops to his knees, the sprinklers still gushing.
       His eyes are tightly shut.

       He feels for Stormís face and touches her lips.

                           CYCLOPS
                 Oh God.

       He immediately begins mouth to mouth, though it may have
       been too long.

       EXT. MALL - NIGHT

       Xavier fights the rush of traffic - people fleeing madly
       from the mall.

       As he pulls up to the front doors, he sees Cyclops
       emerging, carrying Storm.  She is conscious, but her
       breathing is shallow.  His eyes are shut tightly and he
       must follow Rogueís direction.

       Sirens wail in the distance.

       Xavier looks at the lot of them: waifish Rogue, blind
       Cyclops, unconscious Storm and his wheelchair-bound self
       as their guardian.

                           XAVIER
                 But why would they do this?

       Then a look of realization...

       EXT. MANSION - MEANWHILE - NIGHT

       Rogue hurries past several students.

       She runs up to the large front doors of the school, but
       they are locked.  She looks around and then runs toward
       the side of the building.

       INT. LABORATORY - NIGHT

       Beast, continuing his research into Magnetoís plan, is
       analyzing the x-rays of Loganís skeleton.  Several books
       about metallurgy are scattered across the table.

       INT. LOGANíS ROOM - NIGHT

       Logan is sketching quietly.  He chews a cigar, keeping it
       politely unlit.

       He hears something.  He stands, goes to the door and
       opens it.  He cocks his head... listening... smiling...

       We hear it too, sharing his ears.

       It is a woman breathing, groaning.  He smiles and follows
       the noise.

       EXT. MANSION - NIGHT

       Rogue climbs through a studentís open window.

       INT. MANSION - NIGHT

       She darts down a hallway and around a corner, looking
       around, staying low.

       INT. GYMNASIUM - NIGHT

       Jean is working out on an average-sized set of free-
       weights, sweating, pushing hard.  Obviously the sound
       Logan heard.  She is on her back doing presses.

       Suddenly, she looks up and sees Logan standing over.  She
       is startled and starts to drop the bar.  He catches it.

                           LOGAN
                 You should always work with a spotter.

                           JEAN
                 Heís busy right now.

       Logan cannot help but glance at her left hand, still
       clinging to the bar.  The shimmering diamond on the third
       finger.

                           LOGAN
                 I was thinking maybe you and me could
                 go into town.

                           JEAN
                 Were you now?

                           LOGAN
                 What do you say?

                           JEAN
                 Not interested.

       Logan shrugs, starts to take his hands away.  Jean is not
       ready to take the weight of the bar.  It almost comes
       down on her when he catches it again.

                           JEAN
                 Let go.

                           LOGAN
                 Suit yourself.

       And he does.  And so does Jean at the same time.  She
       gets up and faces Logan - the bar simply hovers in mid-
       air.

       Logan smiles.

       INT. LABORATORY - NIGHT

       Beast looks at his watch.  Itís stopped.  He puts it to
       his ear -- shakes it.  Then his ears perk up.  He hears
       something.  He glances at the wall.  All things METAL --
       picture frames, chairs, objects on tables, etc. start to
       move one after the other.
       It is as if some magnetic force is moving past the wall,
       just outside the lab, heading for the open door.

       Beast, sensing the danger, makes a run for the metal
       door.  Just as he reaches it, it SLAMS closed -- knocking
       him back across the room.

       Beast CRASHES into the wall on the opposite side of the
       lab.  His leg badly hurt, Beast tries to crawl toward the
       door.

       But as he does this, METAL OBJECTS from around the lab
       fly in front of it sealing him in.

       INT. CORRIDOR - NIGHT

       Rogue moves quietly down the corridor that leads to
       Cerebro.

       She comes to the retinal scanner - she brings her eye to
       the screen.

       It lights up and scans her eye.  A PICTURE OF XAVIERíS
       RETINA appears on the screen.

       A SINGLE WORD APPEARS ON THE SCREEN beneath it:

       ACCESS DENIED

       The scanner scans again.

       E.C.U. ON ROGUEíS EYE

       Something is wrong.  The eye not being scanned is a
       familiar yellow.  It is Mystique.

       Her other eye changes in the light of the scanner.  The
       retina reshaping itself in minute ways.

       ANGLE ON:  The screen -- ACCESS GRANTED -- CHARLES XAVIER

       The door to Cerebro opens.

       Rogue or rather Mystique, rushes in.  She goes to a small
       panel on the side of Cerebro.

       She opens it.  She reaches in.  SHE REMOVES A COMPUTER
       CHIP -- No more than three inches wide.

       INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT

       ANGLE ON:  The black boots of a man, walk down a hallway,
       as students peer from their sleeping quarters, terrified.

       INT. GYMNASIUM - NIGHT

       Jean is casually wiping sweat from her brow.  Loganís
       eyes possess a certain focus intent.

                           LOGAN
                 Heís uptight.

                           JEAN
                 He takes his work seriously.

                           LOGAN
                 He takes himself seriously.

                           JEAN
                 What is it youíre failing to get at?
                 Are you interested in me?

                           JEAN
                 Iím just interested.

       Holding out her left hand.

                           JEAN
                 Logan, do you see this ring?

                           LOGAN
                 Iíve seen a lot of rings.

                           JEAN
                 Yeah, Iíll bet you have.

       Before he can reply, Rogue is standing in the doorway
       looking at them.

                           JEAN
                 Rogue, where have you been?

                           ROGUE
                 Logan.  The Professor wants you to
                 come with me right away.

       E.C.U. on Loganís nose.  His nostrils flare... sensing...

       Logan squints the tiniest bit.  We know he knows
       something is wrong, but he is hiding it.

                           LOGAN
                     (to Rogue)
                 Hey Rogue, tell Jean what you were
                 telling me last night.

       Rogue pauses.  Confused.

                           ROGUE
                 The Professor--

       Logan walks towards her.

                           LOGAN
                 You remember.  About women.

       He moves closer.

                           ROGUE
                 Logan--

                           LOGAN
                 Whatever you say about them being the
                 same...

       SHOOK.  The claws are out.  HE LUNGES.

                           LOGAN (contíd)
                 No two women smell alike.

       He grabs Rogue by the throat.

                           JEAN
                 Logan, what are you doing?

       Jean, seeing Logan threaten Rogue with his claws for the
       second time, RAISES A VAULTING HORSE INTO THE AIR.

                           LOGAN
                 This ainít Rogue!

       He keeps his claws pointed at her face.

       ANGLE TIGHT: Loganís left hand is wrapped around Rogueís
       throat but part of it is TOUCHING THE EXPOSED SKIN OF HER
       FACE WITH NO ILL EFFECTS.

       Jean realizes that Logan is right.  ROGUE MORPHS INTO
       MYSTIQUE.

                           MAGNETO (O.S.)
                 Telekinesis.

       Jean spins around and sees MAGNETO.  Without hesitation,
       the vaulting horse FLIES AT MAGNETO.

       Simultaneously, one of the thousand-pound weights flies
       from the weight set and smashes the vaulting horse aside.

                           MAGNETO (contíd)
                 Fascinating.  What I wouldnít give for
                 that.  Alas, metal is all Iím good
                 for.  But it seems to serve me well
                 enough.

       Jean is completely unaware of the huge set of lockers
       rising behind her.

                           LOGAN
                 Jean!

       WHAM.

       The lockers hit her in the back, sending her flying.

       Jean lies motionless on the floor, unconscious.  The
       heavy lockers are floating above her, wavering between a
       few feet and a few inches.

                           MAGNETO
                 I do love a good check mate.

                           LOGAN
                 What do you want?

                           MAGNETO
                 Come with me and Iíll let her live.

                           LOGAN
                 You think I care about her?  Iím the
                 only one whoís sure to walk out of
                 here.

       Pause.

                           MAGNETO
                 Then why donít you kill her.

       This catches Logan a little off guard.

                           MAGNETO (contíd)
                 Go on.  Kill her.  You can do it
                 quicker than I will.  Maybe Iíll just
                 cripple her.

       The lockers now stand upright, hovering over Jeanís
       knees.

                           MAGNETO (contíd)
                 So do her the favor.  Show her mercy.

       Logan thinks for a moment -- looks at Jean still
       unconscious on the floor.  Then:

       Logan retracts his claws.

       Mystique has morphed back into her natural state with the
       exception of ONE OF ROGUEíS POCKETS, which still clings
       to her hip.  Mystique produces a large syringe from the
       pocket and sticks it in Loganís neck.  Loganís legs
       weaken instantly.

                           MAGNETO (contíd)
                     (to Mystique)
                 Call the others and tell them we have
                 what we came for.

       EXT. MANSION - LATER - NIGHT

       The fence that surrounds the property has been bent and
       buckled violently.

       INT. MANSION HALLWAY - NIGHT

       Xavier wheels down the hallway, pajama clad students are
       milling about the halls.  Their faces showing that they
       are afraid to go back to their rooms.  One GIRL, younger
       and smaller than the others, seems particularly upset.

       Xavier wheels over to her and gently touches the side of
       her face.

                           XAVIER
                 Itís going to be alright.

       She manages a faint smile.  Then Xavier looks to the
       other students -- their frightened faces.

       INT. LABORATORY - LATER - NIGHT

       Beast reclines in his lab chair, a splint on his leg.

       Jean stands with Cyclops who watches through a new visor.

       Rogue sits off to the side, bearing the guilt.  While
       Storm, her neck badly bruised, stands near her.

       For the first time we have seen -- Charles Xavier is
       angry.

                           STORM
                 When Rogue left the mansion, they must
                 have followed her.

       Xavier shuts his eyes furious.

                           XAVIER
                 Yes... they wanted me out of the way.
                 If I had been here... I...

       Xavier opens his eyes and sees Rogue sitting on a chair
       in the corner.  She is visibly upset.  Xavier wheels over
       to Rogue.  Xavier reaches out and softly touches her
       clothing covered shoulder.

                           XAVIER (contíd)
                 This was not your fault.  I knew there
                 was a danger, I should have never left
                 the school.

       And with that he turns his wheelchair to the door.

                           XAVIER (contíd)
                 I am going to find Logan.

       Xavier leaves.

       INT. CEREBRO - NIGHT

       Xavier enters and wheels himself into the giant machine.
       It immediately comes to life - lighting the room.  The
       chrome skull cap descends onto Xavierís head.

       Xavier closes his eyes as the machine powers up.

       E.C.U. ON XAVIERíS EYES

       They fly open.  And then a terrible noise.  The sound of
       a well tuned machine suddenly going horribly wrong.
       Xavier is in terrible pain.

       His back arches and he falls from his chair onto the
       floor.  He struggles to reach for a fire alarm on the
       wall.  His fingers stretch until finally -- he pulls it.

       Warning bells wail.  Xavier falls unconscious,
       convulsing.

       ANGLE ON: Cyclops and Jean as they burst into the room.

       INT. LABORATORY - LATER - NIGHT

       Xavier lies asleep in a hospital bed.  Several electrodes
       are taped to his head.  A screen next to the bed monitors
       his erratic brain waves.

       Jean and the splinted Beast stare at the monitor
       following its rhythm.  Storm and Rogue stand at the foot
       of the bed.  They are each trying to hide their fear, and
       not doing a very good job of it.  Cyclops looks on, the
       stress shows on his face.

                           CYCLOPS
                 Whatís wrong with him?

                           JEAN
                 His vital signs are weak and getting
                 weaker.

                           BEAST
                 Iím in the process of running more
                 tests.  But it seems that every minute
                 that goes by he gets weaker.

       All are silent.  Rogue looks to Beast with desperate
       eyes.

                           ROGUE
                 Can you help him?

                           BEAST
                 I donít know.

       Xavier lies in bed, motionless.

       INT. FRONT HALL - DAY

       Two huge wooden front doors -- morning light shines
       through the jagged holes in the wood where the knobs had
       been pulled off.  The antique steel knobs lay twisted and
       mangled on the floor.

       The small girl from last night kneels in front of the
       door with a dustpan, sweeping up the mess.

       Something catches her eye.  She sits up and leans in
       closer to the jagged hole in the door.

       ANGLE ON: The little girl -- light from the hole washes
       over her face.  Then suddenly the light is cut off, as if
       something is blocking the hole.

       DOLLY IN: as the small girl steps back, a look of
       fascination comes across her face.  As if she sees
       something coming through the hole.

       INT. CEREBRO - DAY

       Cyclops, Jean and Storm stand before the device.  Beast
       rises awkwardly on his splinted leg, his back to the open
       control panel.

                           BEAST
                 Itís gone.  The neuro-filter, someone
                 removed it.

       Jean stands.

                           STORM
                 What does that mean?

                           BEAST
                 The neuro-filter acts like a surge
                 protector, regulating the infinite
                 flow of information from Cerebro to
                 the Professorís mind.  Itís what keeps
                 him from being crushed by the
                 consciousness of millions.

       Cyclops steps away, pondering Beastís words.  He
       understands the ramifications -- the damage that has been
       done to Xavier.

                           CYCLOPS
                 Can the Professor repair his own mind?

                           BEAST
                 Iím afraid without Cerebroís help, he
                 wonít have the strength to heal
                 himself -- And without the neuro-
                 filter... thereís no Cerebro.

       Jean is noticeably upset.

                           JEAN
                 Heís already losing control of his
                 vitals.  Respiratory.  Cardiovascular.
                 Unless we manage to replace the filter
                 by tomorrow morning, Iím afraid.

                           CYCLOPS
                 We have to find Magneto.

       He exits.  Jean follows him.

       INT. HALLWAY - DAY

       Cyclops is standing, motionless.

                           JEAN
                 Are you all right?

                           CYCLOPS
                 No.  Iím...  I donít know if we can do
                 this without Charles.

       Jean puts her hand lovingly to his face.  Cyclops takes
       her hand.

                           JEAN
                 He put you in charge for a reason,
                 Scott.

       She goes to kiss him.

                           SMALL GIRL
                 Dr. Grey?...

       The small girl stands alone in the hallway.

                           SMALL GIRL (contíd)
                 Someone is here to see you.

       Jeanís eyes widen -- and around the corner steps Senator
       Kelly, wearing the clothing he had taken from the beach.
       He trembles as though from a high fever.  His body is
       covered with a layer of sweat.

                           KELLY
                 Dr. Grey.

                           JEAN
                 Senator?

                           CYCLOPS
                 How did you get in here?

                           KELLY
                 Your front door was damaged... there
                 was a hole...

       Kelly makes a hole with his hands that is not much larger
       then that of a coffee can.

                           KELLY (contíd)
                 ... I squeezed through.

       Kelly buckles in pain, but then catches himself.

       Jean and Cyclops rush to help him.  Beast crutches
       himself out to see whatís happening.

       Kelly notices Beast.

                           KELLY (contíd)
                 What in Godís name are you?

                           BEAST
                 Iím Beast.

                           KELLY
                 Of course you are.

       INT. LABORATORY - LATER - DAY

       Xavier is in bed, eyes closed.

       Rogue holds vigil at his side.

       Kelly is in the bed next to him, trembling, burning up
       from what seems to be a bad fever that keeps getting
       worse.

       Jean has a syringe in her hand and is swabbing some
       alcohol on Kellyís skin.

                           KELLY
                 Iím sorry to come here, Ms. Grey.  I
                 was afraid if I went to a hospital,
                 they would...

                           JEAN
                     (interrupting)
                 Treat you like a mutant?  We are not
                 what you think.  Not all of us.

                           KELLY
                 Tell it to the ones that did this to
                 me.

       Jean looks closer at his hands.

                           JEAN
                 I donít see these spikes youíre
                 talking about.  Iím going to give you
                 an antibiotic for the - Oh my God.

       Jean and Kelly both look as the cotton swab ignites like
       flash paper in her hand.  Everyone is shocked.  Jean
       pauses and takes the bottle of alcohol from the shelf.
       She pours a small amount on Kellyís arm and it instantly
       catches fire.

       INT. LABORATORY - LATER - DAY

       Rogue is still sitting in a chair, next to Xavierís bed --
       Xavierís opens his eyes.  He looks at Rogue and smiles
       softly.

                           XAVIER
                 Hello, Rogue?

       Rogue almost jumps out of her chair with excitement.

                           ROGUE
                 Hold on, Iíll get the others.

       Rogue exits.  Xavier slowly looks over to Kelly lying in
       the bed next to him.  Both men are weak and getting
       weaker.

                           XAVIER
                 Senator... Kelly?

                           KELLY
                 Yes...  Who are you?

                           XAVIER
                 I am Charles Xavier.  This is my
                 school.

       Kelly tries to speak, but his strength is waning.

       The two men are a pitiful sight, both slowly coming
       apart.

                           XAVIER (contíd)
                 Can you tell me what happened to you?

       Kelly is in pain.  Itís a struggle to speak.

                           KELLY
                     (weak, delirious)
                 I was kidnapped...  They killed
                 GUYRICH... mutants...  There was a
                 light... a bright... light.

       Xavier turns to Kelly, looking deep into his eyes.

       He begins to PROBE KELLYíS MIND.

       INT. EXT. VARIOUS FLASHBACK - DAY/NIGHT

       FLASH

       The following is an audio-visual collage of Kellyís
       perspective from throughout the film, coming back to us
       in a new order.

       THE CAGE OF SENATOR KELLY in Magnetoís lair.  NOW HIS
       P.O.V. as seen by Xavier.

       Vision fades in and out in a sedated haze.

       He is laid out of a gurney.

                           KELLY (V.O.)
                 Whatever you do to me... no matter
                 what -- youíll make me right.  Every
                 word I have spoken will be confirmed.

       He looks up and sees Mystique wheeling the gurney,
       smiling down at the Senator.

                           MYSTIQUE (V.O.)
                 And people like you are the reason I
                 was afraid to go to school as a child.

       FLASH

       Kelly is looking around a large, sphered room.  In the
       center is the MACHINE.

                           JEAN (V.O.)
                 The mutant gene tells the body when it
                 needs to change.

                           KELLY (V.O.)
                 I can assure you, there is no such
                 creature in my genes.

       FLASH

       The DOG TAG as it is elevated into the machine.

                           JEAN (V.O.)
                 In every organism on Earth there exits
                 a mutator gene -- The X-factor.  The
                 beginnings of another stage of
                 evolution.

       SLOWLY BUILDING LIGHT, growing brighter and brighter.

                           MAGNETO (V.O.)
                 God works too slowly.

       Pull back as if the camera is pulling back through his
       eye, into his head -- A MICROSCOPEíS VIEW OF HIS CELLS,
       suddenly and violently disturbed.

                           KELLY (V.O.)
                 What have you bastards done to me?

                           CHILDíS VOICE (V.O.)
                 Mom, is that a mutant?

       Kellyís reflection in the metal of the sink in his
       prison.

                           MAGNETO (V.O.)
                 Youíre a leader Senator Kelly, you set
                 an example...

       Blobís face, burned by Kellyís hands.

       Over the cliff.

                           GUYRICH (V.O.)
                 ... A Demonstration of some kind?

       The venomous spike emerging from Kellyís hands.

                           MAGNETO (V.O.)
                 Because if more of you... were like
                 more of us... like more of us...

                           GUYRICH (V.O.)
                 ... the UN summit... the whole world
                 will be watching.

                           KELLY (V.O.)
                 What is it you intend to do to me?

       The woman staring up at him on the beach.

                           KELLY (V.O.)
                 Oh...  Oh God... what have you done to
                 me?

       The boy on the beach.

       JARRING FLASH

                           KELLY (V.O.)
                 Dear God.... dear... God.

                           NEWSCASTER (V.O.)
                 ... the largest single summit in the
                 history of the planet.

                           JEAN (V.O.)
                 ... the mutator gene will activate.

                           MAGNETO (V.O.)
                 Welcome to the future... brother...
                 The brotherhood of mutants.

       A VIOLENT COLLISION OF NOISE, IMAGE AND LIGHT AND THEN:

       Xavierís eyes burst open.

       INT. LABORATORY - NIGHT

       Rogue leads Storm, Jean, Beast and Cyclops quickly into
       the lab.

       Xavier is lying in his bed.  Jean looks up at the screen
       above him and sees Xavierís brain waves have dropped
       severely.

       Kelly lies unconscious in his bed, his heart monitor
       weakening.

       Beast limps over to Xavier.  Xavier struggles to speak.
       Beast bends down so that Xavier can whisper into his ear.

       E.C.U. Xavierís lips move as he tells Beast what he
       knows.

       INT. LAB - LATER - NIGHT

       Jean, Storm, Beast and Cyclops talk while the news plays
       silently on the TV in the background.

                           BEAST
                 It appears as though Magneto has built
                 a machine which somehow triggers the
                 mutator gene in normal human beings.
                 And he is using Adamantium as its
                 core.

                           CYCLOPS
                 Its core?

       Beast grabs a wax pen and draws a lightbulb on a glass
       drawing board.

                           BEAST
                 Thomas Edison knew how to make the
                 light bulb.  He had the energy source.
                 He had the vacuum.  But he didnít have
                 the filament.  He tried metal after
                 metal but nothing would hold to power.

                           STORM
                     (nods -- now understanding)
                 ... until he found tungsten.

       Beast finishes his lightbulb by drawing the filament.

                           BEAST
                 Correct...  Apparently, Adamantium is
                 the only metal strong enough to hold
                 the energy this machine produces.  He
                 used the Adamantium in Loganís dog tag
                 to test it on the Senator.  And I
                 assume now he plans to use the rest of
                 Loganís skeleton for a larger
                 demonstration.

                           CYCLOPS
                 For what purpose?

                           BEAST
                 Yes -- Only thereís a problem.  The
                 mutator gene is not responding to the
                 radiation the way it would in mother
                 nature.  Itís forcing the bodyís cells
                 to replicate thousands of times faster
                 than theyíre accustomed to.  The
                 Senatorís body is literally burning
                 itself out.  Scott -- this machine
                 kills people and I donít think Magneto
                 realizes it.

                           CYCLOPS
                 So where do you think heís planning
                 this larger demonstration?

       Jean looks down and sees Xavier pointing with a trembling
       hand, trying to speak.

       Xavier is pointing to the television.

                           XAVIER
                 There...

       He is looking at yet another report on Ellis Island.

       Cyclops and Jean walk over.  All they see on the TV is an
       aerial shot of Manhattan, slowly coming around toward the
       harbor.

       The television image is from the P.O.V. of a helicopter
       circling Ellis Island, taking in all the security and
       construction.  The grand main hall to Ellis Island and
       finally, what the helicopter sees as it comes around for
       one more pass.

       SUDDENLY - The sound of Kellyís heart monitor begins to
       PICK UP SPEED.  Jean rushes to Kelly and touches his pale
       neck.  She draws her hand back quickly as if burned.  The
       heart monitor keeps speeding up until it is racing faster
       than a human heart could possibly produce.

       Jean backs away helplessly.

       The sheet that covers Kellyís body begins to flatten out.
       The sweat covering the hapless Senatorís body thickens
       into a viscous, clear liquid and begins to run off the
       table.  Kelly is literally melting away.  Cyclops holds
       Jean as she turns away.

       ANGLE ON: THE TV -- the gathering leaders of the world,
       the water clogged with boats, and the thousands of
       onlookers on Manhattan Island.  All well within range.

       INT. READY ROOM - NIGHT

       Storm finishes preparing to leave in another section of
       the ready room.  Beast stands by on his Beast-size
       crutches feeling useless.

                           BEAST
                 I wish I could go.

                           STORM
                 We all do.

                           BEAST
                 Storm.  Try to look for the highest
                 vantage point.
                 From what I can figure, heíll need to
                 gain as much altitude as possible to
                 blanket the island.  It is my feeling
                 that Magneto has to--

                           STORM
                 Beast.

       Beast looks at her.

                           STORM (contíd)
                 Weíll be fine.

       INT. LAB - NIGHT

       Cyclops stands looking down at Professor Xavier.  He
       starts to walk away but he is stopped.  He looks down and
       sees that the Professor has weakly grabbed his sleeve.
       Cyclops looks at Xavier but he is still unconscious.  His
       hand falls back to the bed.

                           CYCLOPS
                 You can still hear me... canít you.

       Xavier lies still.

                           CYCLOPS (contíd)
                 I want to thank you for taking me in.
                 Taking us in...  You have taught me
                 everything in my life that is worth
                 knowing.

       Cyclops grimly regards Xavier.

                           CYCLOPS (contíd)
                 And I want you to know that Iíll take
                 care of them.

       INT. READY ROOM - NIGHT

       Cyclops and Jean get into their uniforms.

       Jean is about to go to the hanger when Cyclops stops her.

                           CYCLOPS
                 Hey.  Iím sorry.  About Logan.  I was
                 jealous.

                           JEAN
                     (putting her arms around him)
                 Well, I think thatís perfectly
                 understandable.

                           CYCLOPS
                 Iíll tell you one thing though.

                           JEAN
                 Whatís that?

                           CYCLOPS
                 He calls me sport one more time, and
                 Iíll blow a watermelon-sized hole
                 through him.

       She smiles and kisses him.

                           CYCLOPS (contíd)
                 Now letís go get him.

       INT. X-JET - NIGHT

       Cyclops, Storm, and Jean board the X-Jet.  They find --
       ROGUE, strapped into a seat, ready to go.

       INT. HANGER - NIGHT

       ROGUE stands outside the jet, obviously having been
       kicked off.

       INT. X-JET - NIGHT

       Jean reaches out a hand.  Cyclops takes it.  They squeeze
       tight.  The X-Jetís engines begin to fire up.

       INT. HANGER - NIGHT

       The hatch slowly starts to swing closed.  From where she
       stands Rogue debates, and then runs, dashing inside as
       the hatch to the X-Jet closes behind her.

       EXT. BASKETBALL COURT - NIGHT

       A basketball sits on the ground near the middle of the
       court.

       Suddenly the asphalt starts to vibrate and the basketball
       rolls a few inches.

       THEN:  There is a grinding noise and the surface begins
       to separate at the half court line.  The basketball falls
       through the widening hole and bounces off the wing of the
       rising X-Jet.

       LIFT-OFF.  The jet turns and clears the hanger before
       blasting off into the night sky.

       EXT. ELLIS ISLAND - NIGHT

       An aerial shot showing us the whole of the event.

       Security of every kind covers every inch of the island.

       Helicopters are coming in at the rate of about one every
       minute to deliver dignitaries and their families from all
       over the globe.

       EXT. ELLIS ISLAND - BRIDGE TO NEW JERSEY - NIGHT

       A steady flow of limos pour onto the island over a simple
       two-lane bridge from New Jersey.

       A NEWSCASTER IN THE FOREGROUND.

                           NEWSCASTER
                 With the ceremonies beginning shortly,
                 it looks as though the last of the
                 dignitaries have landed at Newark and
                 Teterboro airports and will be
                 arriving momentarily.  It would seem
                 the United Nations has had their wish
                 tonight.  There doesnít seem to be an
                 empty seat in the house.

       EXT. BATTERY PARK - NIGHT

       The pier of the Ferry to Liberty Island.

       A great many families have come to watch curiously the
       going on.

       EXT. MANHATTAN HARBOR - NIGHT

       The harbor is filled with police and Coast Guard vessels
       watching the water closely.

       INT. NEW YORK CITY APARTMENTS/VARIOUS - NIGHT

       A series of shots showing the many folks gathering to
       watch the historic event on television.

       In some of these apartments, Ellis and Liberty islands
       can be seen from their windows in the distance.

       INT. SECURITY CONTROL CENTER - NIGHT

       The OPERATING COMMANDER monitors the countless video
       screens that display nearly every crevice of Ellis Island
       as well as other parts of New York Harbor as well as the
       network news feeds of the event...

       EXT. ELLIS ISLAND - MAIN ENTRANCE - NIGHT

       The front of the Great Hall of Ellis Island, where once
       immigrants poured into the new world by the millions.

       A huge military band off to one side plays music from the
       different countries to help with the milling about and
       shaking of hands.

       The PRESIDENT himself is in the crowd, meeting and
       greeting, a mob of Secret Service always right there.
       Follow him into:

       INT. ELLIS ISLAND - MAIN HALL

       A YASSAR ARAFAT TYPE, who we will call Yassir Arafat,
       comes up to the President and smiles.

       The President introduces his WIFE AND CHILD as more
       delegates approach.

       The two men LAUGH and then HUG to the flashing of a
       million bulbs.

       Smattering of ass-kissy applause.  Arafat and the
       President wave to press and the like.

       EXT. OBSERVATION DECK - ELSEWHERE - NIGHT

       We are looking down on what APPEARS TO BE a deserted part
       of the island.  Away from the action.

       PAN ACROSS THE EDGE OF THE ISLAND

       Every fifty feet or so, uniformed Secret Service agents
       keep tight watch on the island.

       ANGLE ON:

       One Secret Service guy in particular.

       PUSH IN FROM ABOVE - We realize we are pushing in
       unusually fast, as though we are falling.

       WHAM.  A sickening crunch.

       Toad lands on top of the Secret Service guy.  We have
       been watching from his P.O.V.  The Secret Service man is
       tumbled into a heap.  A real frog rabbits O.S.

       Toad looks around quietly, listens...  THEN LEAPS out of
       frame.  Hold on the body of the Secret Service guy.

       LONG PAUSE.

       ANOTHER SICKENING CRUNCH OFF SCREEN.

       EXT. LIBERTY ISLAND - NIGHT

       Two Secret Service guys approach one another.  One is
       holding a smoke, the other is producing a lighter.  Just
       as his smoke is about to hit the flame, the flame dodges
       to one side.  He moves the smoke to follow it, and the
       flame dodges the other way.

       The guy with the smoke looks at the guy with the lighter
       as if to say ìknock it off.î  The guy with the lighter
       shrugs as:

       THE FLAME INSTANTLY GROWS TO A RAGING INTENSITY,
       ENGULFING THEM.

       As they are incinerated and their ashes fall to the
       ground, Pyro climbs into view from the seawall below,
       dripping wet.

       He has come dressed to make trouble tonight.  Strapped to
       his back is an impressive looking flame thrower.  A three
       tanker.

       EXT. SEAWALL - NIGHT

       A Coast Guard boat crawls into view just off shore.  A
       Secret Service man in the foreground waves to the boat as
       it passes by.

       EXT. COAST GUARD BOAT DECK - NIGHT

       A thirty footer.  Fast and sturdy.

       The PILOT OF THE BOAT, a man in his late forties, waves
       back.

       EXT. SEAWALL - NIGHT

       As the Secret Service guy waves, he jolts upright, his
       face contorting in impossible pain.  Slowly, he is lifted
       off the ground.

       EXT. COAST GUARD BOAT DECK - NIGHT

       PILOTíS P.O.V.

       Sabretooth holds the last Secret Service man aloft,
       impaled on his claws.  He waves now, the body swaying
       this way and that before he casually throws it to the
       ground.

       The Pilot turns to the wheel of the boat as he MORPHS
       INTO MYSTIQUE and turns the boat toward the island.

       EXT. BOTTOM OF THE SEAWALL - BOAT - NIGHT

       Man-made rocky shore.  The boat bumps and grinds on the
       rock.  Sabretooth jumps down to the deck and meets
       Magneto coming up from below.  They nod to one another
       and walk toward the front of the boat.  On the deck is
       something covered with a tarp.  Sabretooth pulls back the
       tarp to reveal Logan, still unconscious from the drug.

       ANOTHER, MUCH LARGER OBJECT is on the back of the boat
       under another tarp, but we cannot see what it is.

       Magneto steps off the boat and looks up -- up at
       someplace we cannot yet see.

       EXT. ELLIS ISLAND - GREAT HALL - NIGHT

       The dignitaries take their seats as the ceremony
       commences.

       INT. X-JET - NIGHT

       Cyclops pilots the plane as Manhattan comes into view.
       They bank to the south.  Cyclops checks his monitors.

                           CYCLOPS
                 Radar Stealth Mode checks out.  All
                 right, thereíll be less security north
                 of the George Washington Bridge.  Iím
                 taking her down.

                           JEAN
                 Into the Hudson?

                           CYCLOPS
                     (smiles)
                 Uh-huh.

       EXT. HUDSON RIVER - NIGHT

       The X-Jet slows to a hover.  Itís Harrier Jet engines
       tilt back until they are vertical to the water.  The
       engines cycle down and the plane lowers until it is
       hovering a few feet off the surface.

       INT. X-JET - NIGHT

                           CYCLOPS
                 V.T.O.L. off.

       EXT. HUDSON RIVER - NIGHT

       The Jetís engines cut and the plane splashes down into
       the water.  It floats there for a moment and then sinks
       below the surface.

       EXT. BELOW RIVER SURFACE - NIGHT

       As the X-Jet sinks, the hatches close off and the wings
       retract to transform the plane into a submarine.  The
       engines pull tight to the body of the craft and begin to
       propel it forward.

       EXT. HUDSON RIVER - NIGHT

       AERIAL VIEW: The water ripples as the submersed aircraft
       passes under the bridge and into the harbor.

       INT. SMALL ROOM - NIGHT

       C.U. on Logan.  He wakes.  His arms are cuffed behind his
       back.  He is delirious and weakened from the drug.

       He looks around and sees that he is in an oddly shaped
       room with barely enough space for him and Magneto, who
       smiles at him in the half darkness.

                           LOGAN
                     (very weak)
                 Where am I?

                           MAGNETO
                 Youíre backstage at the encore of
                 creation.

       He looks at his watch.

                           MAGNETO (contíd)
                 Three minutes to curtain.

                           LOGAN
                 What are you going to do?

                           MAGNETO
                 In the road to survival, there is
                 always sacrifice Logan.  We are the
                 future... not them.  We must protect
                 ourselves.  After tonight, when the
                 leaders of the world return home --
                 They will return as brothers, as
                 mutants... and our cause will be
                 theirs.  This is survival, I know you
                 understand that, Logan... or is it
                 Wolverine?

       He steps out of the hatch and closes it.

       EXT. LIBERTY ISLAND - NIGHT

       Magneto who looks down.  From atop what, we cannot tell.

       Magneto comes to stand on a railing outside from his high
       perch, overlooking the island.  From here we pull out to
       reveal at last where he is.

       HE IS NOT ON ELLIS ISLAND AT ALL

       Instead, he stands on the catwalk around the torch of the
       Statue of Liberty, about a mile away.
       He has his back to itís gold translucent flame, looking
       over at the activity on Ellis Island, hearing the band
       and inhaling the cool evening breeze.

                           MAGNETO
                 Give me your tired, your poor...

       And he turns to the bright lights of Manhattan and itís
       millions of inhabitants.

                           MAGNETO (contíd)
                 ... Your huddled masses.

       He brings a radio to his lips.

                           MAGNETO (contíd)
                 Lights.

       EXT. POWER STATION - NIGHT

       Sabretooth is tearing the padlocks off of the generator
       shed that powers the island.

       INT. POWER STATION - NIGHT

       Sabretooth grabs a hold of a fuse lever marked ìLiberty
       Display Lightsî and pulls it down.  Turning it off.

       INT. TORCH - NIGHT

       Logan is now in darkness.  He frantically pulls on his
       binds.  No use.

       INT. X-JET - NIGHT

       Cyclops is monitoring the area above-water on a video
       screen.

                           JEAN
                     (points to the monitor)
                 The lights on the Statue of Liberty
                 are off.

                           STORM
                 Beast said that he would have to take
                 a high vantage point.

       Cyclops, motioning to an open area of water next to
       Liberty Island.

                           CYCLOPS
                 Letís dock over there.

       Cyclops pulls a lever.  The X-Jet begins to surface.

                           CYCLOPS (contíd)
                 Storm, give us some cover.

       INT. APARTMENTS/VARIOUS - NIGHT

       Televisions all over the city show the Statue sitting
       dark to countless curious viewers.

       INT. X-JET - NIGHT

       The water level outside the X-Jet lowers as the plane
       surfaces.

       EXT. X-JET - NIGHT

       The plane rises until it is nearly flush with the surface
       of the water -- Not a hundred yards from an obvious Coast
       Guard cutter.  Out the jetís window, the Statue rises
       away into the fog that is now rolling in over the Harbor.

       INT. SECURITY CONTROL CENTER - NIGHT

       ANGLE ON:

       The OPERATIONS COMMANDER raises a radio to his mouth.

                           OPERATION COMMANDER
                 Liberty One, Liberty One, this is
                 Horizon, do you copy.

       AN AGENTíS VOICE RESPONDS.

                           AGENTíS VOICE
                 Go, Horizon.

                           OPERATION COMMANDER
                     (on radio)
                 Liberty, whatís the situation with the
                 lights, over?

       EXT. LIBERTY ISLAND - NIGHT

       IT IS MYSTIQUE.  The lower part of her face and the whole
       her neck are that of a stocky man.

                           MYSTIQUE/AGENTíS VOICE
                 Uhhh, Horizon, weíve seem to have had
                 a shutdown at the generator, weíre
                 five by five.  There now, checking it
                 out.  Everything is fine other-wise.

                           OPERATION COMMANDER
                     (on radio)
                 Roger Liberty one.  Horizon out.

       She MORPHS back into her full self and smiles.

                           MYSTIQUE
                 Darling...  Weíre clear.

       EXT. SEAWALL - NIGHT

       Jean, Cyclops, Storm and Rogue step off the wing tip of
       the X-Jet onto the island.  They climb over the fog
       encased seawall and stand staring up at the Statue and
       the desolate island.

       EXT. TORCH - NIGHT

       Magneto takes this moment in the darkness to point his
       hands and all of his concentration on the bottom of the
       torch.

       The air RIPPLES with magnetic energy as -- the cap-like
       end piece of the torch begins to vibrate, metal groans,
       twists...

       WITH A CRACK OF METAL, it comes free, dropping to the
       ground.

       INT. TORCH - NIGHT

       Logan stares down through the hollow torch as the cap
       falls away into the fog.

       EXT. STATUE - BOTTOM - NIGHT

       The foursome are deciding how to proceed.

                           CYCLOPS
                 We should check out operations, see if
                 the Secret Service is still around.

       Storm is surveying the layout of the island.  She looks
       up at the Statue.

                           STORM
                 LOOK OUT.

       They all look up.  The cap of the torch is SCREAMING DOWN
       towards them out of the sky.  It crashes down as they
       leap out of the way.

                           CYCLOPS
                 Iím going to assume that means that
                 the Secret Service is out of
                 commission.  Jean, can you raise me up
                 there?

                           JEAN
                 Itís too far.

                           CYCLOPS
                     (assessing the situation)
                 Storm, Rogue, -- you take the south
                 entrance.
                     (pointing to the main
                      entrance)
                 Jean and I will go in here.

       Storm and Rogue start for the south entrance.

                           CYCLOPS (contíd)
                     (to Storm and Rogue)
                 Iíll see you both soon.

       EXT. TORCH - NIGHT

       Magneto prepares to execute the next stage of his plan
       when he looks out over the island.  A DENSE FOG has
       rolled in, obscuring his view of the bottom half of the
       Statue.  He looks out towards Ellis Island and sees that
       the fog is localized over Liberty Island.

                           MAGNETO
                     (into radio)
                 Be careful everyone...  I think we may
                 have company.

       EXT. SEAWALL - NIGHT

       The Coast Guard boat Magneto came in on.  The giant tarp
       on the boat and what is under it.

       IT RISES IN THE AIR, standing upright.  The tarp slides
       to the deck to reveal:

       THE MACHINE.  The one Kelly and Xavier saw.  The air
       ripples as it rises higher in the air.

       INT. MUSEUM - NIGHT

       Storm and Rogue quietly enter the Statueís museum.  It is
       filled with scale models and full size displays
       documenting the history of Lady Liberty.  One display
       showcasing the METAL STRIPS which line the Statue for
       support.  They quickly head for an exit on the far side
       of the room.

       SUDDENLY:

       The lights go out.  Darkness.

       A low guttural CROAK echoes in the void.

                           STORM
                     (whispering)
                 Rogue... run.

       Rogue runs into the darkness, heading for the exit.  She
       dashes past a six foot copper replica of the Statue and
       out the door.

       As soon as Rogue is past, the Statueís HEAD TURNS and
       watches her go.  The replica blinks and the eyes turn
       Mystique yellow.

       INT. TORCH - NIGHT

       The machine is rising.  Logan yanks at the manacles in an
       attempt to pull his hands free.

       INT. OLD TORCH ROOM - NIGHT

       A giant room that welcomes the many visitors to the
       Statue.  In the center is the old torch, placed there
       after the Statueís 1986 restoration.  The only light in
       the room is a soft red glow that emanates from the old
       torch.

       Cyclops notices a map of the Statue on a pedestal.

                           CYCLOPS
                 Over there.

       Cyclops and Jean study the map, looking for the way to
       the torch.  In front of them is the old torch.  Itís
       eerie red glow is growing brighter.

       EXT. STATUE - TORCH - NIGHT

       THE MACHINE rises up and into the bottom of the torch
       itself.

       INT. TORCH - NIGHT

       The machine is now almost on him.  Loganís struggles
       turns to rage.  SHOOK -- He pops his claws and
       frantically cuts at the wall behind him, as the machine
       draws closer.

       INT. MUSEUM - NIGHT

       We hear an ominous LOW RUMBLE, as you hear on an overcast
       day just before a thunderstorm.  SHEETS OF HEAT LIGHTNING
       begin to roll across the ceiling, lighting the room in
       sporadic bursts.

       Toad darts around the room.

       FLASH -- Reptile eyes -- DARKNESS.

       FLASH -- A WEBBED CLAW -- closer -- DARKNESS.

       FLASH -- leaping body -- closer -- DARKNESS.

       Silence.  Darkness.

       The heat lightning continues to expose the room in
       rolling flashes.

       Silence.  Darkness.

       Suddenly, behind Storm the sound of ELEVATOR DOORS
       OPENING.  Storm spins and unleashes a BOLT OF LIGHTNING.
       The lightning strikes an empty GLASS HYDRAULIC ELEVATOR
       SHAFT.  No TOAD.

       INT. OLD TORCH ROOM - NIGHT

       ANGLE ON: The map of the statue.  Cyclops watches as the
       dim red glow turns brighter and brighter.  He turns to
       look up at the old torch -- it glows FIERY RED HOT.

                           CYCLOPS
                 Get down!

       THE TORCH EXPLODES.

       A RING OF FIRE wipes across the room.

       Cyclops and Jean duck behind the marble map pedestal as
       fire whips around them.

       Move up through the CEILING OF FIRE to reveal Pyro at the
       center of the old torch.  His eyes wide, manipulating the
       fire like an orchestra conductor.

       INT. HALLWAY OUTSIDE THE MUSEUM - NIGHT

       Rogue runs down the hallway, she stops.  The sound of
       footsteps echo from behind her.  The footsteps quicken
       from walking to running.  Rogue runs to get away as the
       footsteps of her pursuer get closer.

       INT. MUSEUM - NIGHT

       Darkness.  Silence -- except for the sound of Stormís own
       breathing.  Stormís eyes dart around the room, her senses
       are in overdrive.

       Suddenly, SLIME drips onto her cheek.  A low guttural
       CROAK.  Storm looks up -- TOAD clings to the ceiling.

       WHAM.  Webbed feet slam into Stormís chest sending her
       flying into the elevator shaft.  She crashes helplessly
       to the bottom -- stunned.

       Toadís head peers through the open elevator doors to the
       level below, looking down on the helpless Storm.  Toad
       SMILES.  His webbed finger presses the elevator button.

       The elevator doors above her close, sealing her in the
       glass tubular shaft.
       The ROAR of the hydraulic engine coming to life, the
       elevator begins its crushing descent down toward Storm as
       she lies at the bottom of the shaft dazed.

       INT. OLD TORCH ROOM - NIGHT

       C.U. on Jean and Cyclops both pinned down.

       Fire sweeps around the map pedestal.  Cyclops turns.

       BOOM -- He fires a series of OPTIC BLASTS blindly through
       the fire, blasting the ceiling.

       Chunks of debris from the ceiling shower down onto Pyro.
       The inferno stops.

       Smoke fills the room, Jean tries to catch her breath.
       Cyclops stands and heads toward the old torch trying to
       draw a bead on Pyro.  Cyclops doesnít see him.  When:

       A COLUMN OF FIRE erupts from the thick smoke, rocketing
       at Cyclops.

       Cyclops dodges, flipping a heavy wood table with flaming
       pamphlets on it -- using it as a shield against Pyroís
       fiery onslaught.

       EXT. TORCH - BACK - NIGHT

       ANGLE FROM DIRECTLY OVERHEAD:

       Magneto on the side of the torchís flame raises the huge
       machine -- while on the other side -- LOGAN PUSHES
       HIMSELF THROUGH THE HOLE -- his hands still bound behind
       his back, and slams against the outer railing of the
       torch.

       Logan looks around in shock.  He realizes where he is.
       He looks out at all the activity on Ellis Island, drawing
       a greater understanding of Magnetoís plan.

       EXT. TORCH - FRONT - NIGHT

       With a MAGNETIC RIPPLE of the air Magneto drives the
       machine right up through the bottom of the torch like
       batteries in a flashlight.

       EXT. TORCH - BACK - NIGHT

       Logan turns his back to the hole he has just emerged from
       and braces his cuffs against the rising machine.  The
       machine pushes against Loganís wrists driving his cuffs
       up against the top of the hole.

       CRACK.

       The pressure leaves the cuffs apart.

       INT. ELEVATOR SHAFT - NIGHT

       Stormís eyes open, looking straight up.

       ANGLE ON: The elevator continuing its crushing descent.

       Storm struggles to her feet.  Her hand presses against
       the thick glass elevator shaft, it surrounds her like a
       coffin.

       LIGHTNING strike the glass -- to no effect.

       Storm frantically searches for a way out.  She looks up
       to see the elevator closing fast.

       Storm raises her hands above her head.  WIND begins to
       lift Stormís hair.  The wind picks up and starts swirling
       violently against the sides of the elevator shaft.

       Wildly, the wind whips around causing a CYCLONE within
       the glass shaft buffeting upwards against the elevator.

       The elevator groans as the hydraulics fight the
       unrelenting vortex of wind.  Smoke begins to pour from
       the hydraulics, which whine in protest.  At the center of
       the tornado stands Storm, a force of nature.

       As the elevator continues its descent the cyclone pushes
       outward.  Small cracks start to appear on the glass
       walls.

       She is now forced almost to the ground.  The elevator is
       now inches from Stormís head.  The floor is made of a
       thicker version of the same Plexiglas and we look up
       through it, the massive elevator looming over Storm.

       BOOM.

       The glass walls explode outward, showering the museum.

       Storm partly rolls and is partly blown from the shaft to
       safety.  The pressure of the cyclone released, the
       elevator SLAMS to the bottom.

       INT. OLD TORCH ROOM - NIGHT

       Jean, having caught her breath, looks over to:

       C.U. on Cyclops.  Heís pinned down as fire wraps around
       the table -- the fire is burning through.

       Jean, seeing Cyclops defenseless, stands up from behind
       the marble podium.  She quickly scans the room and spots,
       on opposite walls near the old torch, TWO LARGE FIRE
       EXTINGUISHERS.

       Jean stretches out her fists and focuses her telekinesis.

       Pyro spots Jean -- with one hand continuing to blast
       Cyclops, he uses the other to unleash an ARM OF FIRE
       toward Jean.

       Jean focuses as she brings her outstretched fists closer
       together.  Suddenly -- the two fire extinguishers crash
       through their glass holders.

       Like two gunslingers in a showdown.

       The extinguishers bullet toward Pyro.

       The arm of fire rockets closer to Jean.

       Suddenly, the EXTINGUISHERS COLLIDE EXPLODING in front of
       Pyro.

       Inches from Jeanís face, the ARM OF FIRE disappears.

       The COLUMN OF FLAMES against Scott VANISHES.  The flames
       once covering the room are gone, a choking smoke is all
       that remains.

       Through the smoke, at the center of the old torch, Pyro
       lies dead, covered in a sea of white foam.

       Jean starts choking on the smoke.  Cyclops stands and
       motions for her to get out of the smoke filled room.

       EXT. TORCH - FRONT - NIGHT

       The machine finally locks into place.  Magneto raises a
       walkie talkie to his face.

                           MAGNETO
                 Lights on.

       INT. POWER STATION - NIGHT

       Sabretooth grabs a hold of the lever for the ìLiberty
       Displayî power breaker and pulls up.  Turning it on.

       INT. ELLIS ISLAND - GREAT HALL - NIGHT

       The lights of the Statue come back on.  The crowd of
       dignitaries burst into enthusiastic applause as if it is
       part of the proceedings.

       INT. SECURITY CONTROL CENTER - NIGHT

       The Statue now lit up in the monitors.

                           OPERATION COMMANDER
                 Roger.  We see the lights.

       EXT. TORCH - FRONT - NIGHT

       Magneto turns and opens the hatch.  Magneto sees the hole
       -- Logan is gone.

       EXT. TORCH - BACK - NIGHT

       Magneto walks over and stares at the hole, clearly out by
       Loganís claws.

       Magneto looks at his fingers after wiping the edge of the
       hole.  Loganís blood.  Magneto looks down and sees
       Loganís claw marks down the arm of the Statue, marking
       his escape.

       Magneto scans the island from his high perch.  He does
       not see Logan.

       EXT. STATUE - MAIN ENTRANCE - NIGHT

       The doors to the old torch room burst open -- SMOKE
       BILLOWS OUT.  Jean runs out coughing violently.

       Suddenly, Toad lands in front of Jean, grabs her head and
       before she can react, his tongue launches at her face.

       His tongue covers her face with an ADHESIVE SLIME.  Jean
       falls to the ground.  Toad looks back at the main
       entrance, sees Cyclops emerging and LEAPS up, out of
       frame.

       ANGLE ON:

       Cyclops stumbles out of the smoke filled building.
       Seeing Jean lying on the ground, he runs to her.

       Cyclops turns Jean on her back, ready to perform CPR.  He
       is shocked, the slime has now hardened to Jeanís face.
       She is suffocating.  He desperately tries to pry it off.

       ANGLE ON:

       The camera quickly pulls higher and higher revealing --

       TOADíS P.O.V.

       EXT. OBSERVATION DECK - NIGHT

       Toad looks down, perched on top of the railing
       surrounding the base of the Statue -- the same position
       he had before crushing the Secret Service agent.

       Toad arches his back ready to spring downward.  He will
       kill two birds with one crushing leap.

       The sound of WIND.

       C.U. Toadís face static, his eyes slowly look to the
       side.  His head twists, looking over his shoulder.  Storm
       stands behind him.

       Toad turns and hops off the railing towards Storm.

       C.U. on TOADíS FACE.  Which is horrible.

                           TOAD
                 Donít you people die?

       Suddenly the wind picks up violently.  Toad moves closer
       -- fighting the wind.

       Storm is MAD.  A face we remember seeing on a young girl
       in Africa.

       Toad fights the gale force winds, his webbed feet
       adhering to the ground.  He inches closer to Storm.  Toad
       bares his FANGS.

       EXT. STATUE - MAIN ENTRANCE - NIGHT

       On the ground Cyclops notices the wind howling with rage
       above him.  He frantically pulls on the encrusted slime
       suffocating Jean.

       EXT. OBSERVATION DECK - NIGHT

       Stormís eyes widen.  HURRICANE force winds blast Toad.
       Try as he might to use his sticky feet to hold on, Toad
       is blown back off his feet, catching the deck with his
       hands.

       The piece of the deck TEARS LOOSE still attached to
       Toadís hands.  He flies off the deck, past the metal
       railing.  Toadís tongue LASHES OUT AND ATTACHES TO THE
       RAILING.  For a moment, Toad just flaps there like a
       flag.

       Storm RAISES HER ARMS.

       CRASH -- A huge BOLT OF LIGHTNING strikes the railing.

       Toad is blown off the railing in a flash of electricity
       and --

       EXT. HARBOR - NIGHT

       Toad lands in the water.  He disappears below the surface
       leaving nothing but bubbles.

       EXT. OBSERVATION DECK - NIGHT

       Storm moves to the railing.  She looks down at Cyclops
       and Jean.  Suddenly, the metal railing on which her hands
       rest BEGIN TO BEND TOWARD HER.

       EXT. STATUE - MAIN ENTRANCE - NIGHT

       Cyclops continues to pull on the slime.  Jeanís struggles
       are becoming more panicked.

       Cyclops stops and puts his hands on Jeanís shoulders,
       pinning her down.

                           CYCLOPS
                 Jean.  Jean stop.  Stop moving.

       Jean continues to struggle for a moment.  She starts to
       calm down, her chest still hitching involuntarily for
       air.

                           CYCLOPS (contíd)
                 Jean, trust me.  Donít move.

       He takes a hold of her chin and grips it tightly.  He
       FIRES A THIN, FOCUSED OPTIC BEAM INTO THE ENCRUSTED
       SLIME, splitting it in half.  He pulls the remains away
       from her face.

       Jean GASPS for air.  Then she looks up.  Her face turns
       to horror.  Behind Cyclops, towering over him is --
       Sabretooth.

       WHAM!  Sabretooth smashes down.

       BLACK

       INT. HALLWAY OUTSIDE THE MUSEUM - NIGHT

       Rogue turns the corner of the hallway and trips, tumbling
       to the ground.

       Rogue watches from the floor as the shadow of her pursuer
       bends around the corner.  The sound of their footsteps
       get closer.  The shadow is upon her, turning the corner.

       It is LOGAN.

                           LOGAN
                 I didnít mean to scare you.

                           ROGUE
                 Thank God.  Logan... we have to help
                 Storm we have to.

       Logan looks around to make sure itís clear.

                           LOGAN
                 Iíll go back, but first let me find
                 you a safe place.

       Logan extends his hand.

                           LOGAN (contíd)
                 Here, take my hand.

       Rogue looks at Logan confused.  Logan grows impatient.

                           LOGAN (contíd)
                 Take it!

       ANGLE ON: Over Loganís shoulder.  On the back of his neck
       we see some BLUE SCALES.  Logan is not Logan, Logan is
       MYSTIQUE.

       INT. STATUE - HEAD - NIGHT

       E.C.U.-on Magnetoís belt, which is lined with METAL
       STRAPS.  Magnetoís hand comes into frame holding CYCLOPSí
       VISOR and places it against one of the straps.  The strap
       WRAPS ITSELF BACK AND AROUND, pinning the visor to the
       belt.  He brings a radio to his mouth.

                           MAGNETO
                     (into radio)
                 Mystique...  Mystique, where are you?

       Magneto turns to Sabretooth.

                           MAGNETO (contíd)
                 Find Logan.

       Sabretooth exits as Magneto turns to reveal --

       Jean and Cyclops, without his visor, are trapped in a
       hideous tangle of metal (taken from the Statueís steel
       bracing) forcing the two to face each other.  Two sharp
       points of metal rest on either side of Cyclopsí head,
       locking it in position.  Cyclopsí is close enough to feel
       Jeanís breath -- if he opens his eyes, he will destroy
       everything in his path, including Jean.

       Storm is also encased in a myriad of sharp metal bands,
       pinning her to the wall.  Razor sharp pieces of metal
       warp and close on her throat.

       All in all, they are completely disabled.

       Jean struggles to free them with her telekinesis, to no
       avail.

                           CYCLOPS
                     (whispering)
                 Jean... can you?

                           JEAN
                     (whispering)
                 Iím sorry.  Iím not strong enough.

       Magneto stands next to Storm.  Close.

                           MAGNETO
                     (whispering)
                 If the temperature changes a single
                 degree...
                     (looking at Jean)
                 I only need one hostage.

       Magneto stares icily at Storm.

       As if to accentuate the threat, a piece of metal pokes
       ever so slightly into the side of Stormís throat.

                           MAGNETO (contíd)
                     (raising his voice)
                 Now if you can hear me Logan...

       EXT. SEAWALL - NIGHT

       We find Logan -- The real Logan.  He has made it off the
       Statue and is about to jump off the seawall.  He stops
       suddenly.

       E.C.U. of his ear.  His powerful hearing enables him to
       hear Magneto.

                           MAGNETO (V.O.)
                 ... and I know you can -- It is a five
                 minute run from the furthest distance
                 on this island.  If you are not back
                 in this time...  I will kill these
                 friends of Xavierís.  Including the
                 young lady from the gymnasium.  I
                 think they came here to ìrescue you.î

       INT. STATUE - HEAD - NIGHT

       Magneto looks to his hand -- the CHIP from Cerebro.

                           MAGNETO (contíd)
                 I also have a small piece of Cerebro
                 that might be of interest to you, if
                 you hope to save Charles Xavier.

       EXT. SEAWALL - NIGHT

                           MAGNETO (V.O.)
                 Xavier is dying you know.  Five
                 minutes Logan.

       Loganís face shows the frustration.  Again, he is forced
       to make a decision.

       INT. STATUE - HEAD - NIGHT

       Magneto pulls out the chip taken from Cerebro and walks
       over to Jean.

                           MAGNETO
                 Here -- Xavierís life.

       He tucks it in an exposed part of her uniform.

                           MAGNETO (contíd)
                 If I get what I want, you can try and
                 save him... for old times sake.

       Magneto turns to Storm.

                           MAGNETO (contíd)
                 Now... shall we talk about the
                 weather.

       INT. ELLIS ISLAND - MAIN ENTRANCE - NIGHT

       The President addresses the audience.  We move across all
       the worldís leaders sitting with their families.  Men,
       women and children of every race, color and creed that
       the planet Earth has to offer.

       INT. STATUE - HEAD - NIGHT

                           JEAN
                 Magneto.  Iíve seen the results of
                 your machine.  Iíve seen Senator
                 Kelly.

                           MAGNETO
                 Ahhhh, so the good Senator survived
                 his fall?  And the swim to shore?  He
                 is stronger than I ever could have
                 imagined.

                           JEAN
                 The experiment was a failure.  Kelly
                 didnít make it.  Yes, you were
                 successful in activating his mutator
                 gene, but you failed to take into
                 account the rest of his body -- it
                 wasnít ready for the strain.
                 Kelly was dead within hours.  Your
                 machine kills.

                           MAGNETO
                 Quiet...

       Magneto pauses.  Shock registering on his face that he
       could be wrong.  Thinking.  Considering what Jean is
       telling him.  His mind races and calculates the
       possibility.  Then:

                           MAGNETO (contíd)
                 I donít believe you.

                           JEAN
                 You donít understand.

       Magneto gets angry -- squeezing the metal surrounding
       Jeanís head.  Jean gasps.  This drives Cyclops crazy, but
       he is helpless to stop it.

                           CYCLOPS
                     (yelling)
                 Stop it!

                           MAGNETO
                 Why canít you see what I am trying to
                 do?  Why do you stand in my way?

       Magnetoís anger is boiling over.

       THUD -- the sound of footsteps, then another and another.
       The faces around the room look at the stairs as the
       footsteps get closer and louder.

                           MAGNETO (contíd)
                 Check and mate.

       PAUSE.

       SUDDENLY:  SHOOK -- Loganís claws shoot up through the
       floor, and through Magnetoís feet.  Magneto howls.  The
       claws retract and Magneto falls.

       Magneto, writhes in pain, rolling onto his stomach.

       Logan quickly comes up the stairs and into the Statueís
       head.  He stands over the crippled Magneto.

       Logan turns to Jean who is still pressed eye to eye with
       Cyclops.  He is relieved to see her alive.

       ANGLE ON: Storm.  She sees something.  Several of the
       steel bands that support the top of the Statueís head
       begin to move.

                           STORM
                 Logan!

       THREE METAL BAND peel off the ceiling, coming to life
       with magnetic energy.  They leap across the room and wrap
       around Logan.  Forcing his fists to press against his
       chest.

       Should he so much as extend his claws, he will rupture
       his own vitals.  The metal bands wrap behind his back.

       Magneto raises his hand and MAGNETIC WAVES RIPPLE.  Metal
       groans as Magneto peels open a gaping hole in the top of
       Lady Libertyís head.  Magneto looks up at the torch.  The
       wind howls.

       The AIR RIPPLES again as Magneto levitates the steel
       bands holding Logan, lifting Logan off the ground and out
       the hole in the Statueís head.

       EXT. STATUE - HEAD - NIGHT

       MAGNETIC WAVES thrust Logan through the air and --

       INT. TORCH - NIGHT

       WHAM -- THROUGH the metal skin of the flame.  Logan lands
       in the center of the sphere on top of the machine.

       Inside the sphere is a metal structure resembling the
       model of an atom.  Its rings expand as it receives Logan.

       Logan looks through the hole in the frame, down into the
       hole in the Statueís head, at Magneto.

       INT. STATUE - HEAD - NIGHT

       Magneto struggles to his feet, pulling himself up by his
       hands.  Magneto stares at Logan, impatient.

       Magneto stands with a hand raised up toward the machine.
       Then a slight motion of his wrist --

       INT. TORCH - NIGHT

       The rings start revolving just as it did with Kelly, back
       at the lair.  Spinning slowly, then gaining in speed.

       The air around it RIPPLES, gaining in intensity.

       INT. STATUE - HEAD - NIGHT

       MAGNETIC ENERGY POURS from Magnetoís hands toward the
       machine, behind him Jean and Storm watch helplessly.

       INT. TORCH - NIGHT

       The rings are spinning around Logan at such a speed, the
       rings themselves are no longer visible -- merely a blur
       around the stationary Logan.

       Logan yells.  Unthinkable pain, his skeleton beginning to
       glow through his skin.

       His eyes look down, through the hole in the torch, into
       the Statueís head, searching for Jean.

       The deafening whine builds louder and louder.

       INT. STATUE - HEAD - NIGHT

       Magneto looks at the incredible displays as MAGNETIC
       ENERGY flows from his hands continuing to charge the
       machine.

       Mystique emerges from the stairwell behind Magneto.  Her
       eyes widen in awe.

                           MAGNETO
                 Ahh, there you are.

       Mystique walks slowly toward magneto.  Storm and Jean
       watch the torch in horror.

                           JEAN
                     (to Mystique)
                 You have to stop him, the machine...
                 it kills people...

       Mystique ignores Jean.  She stops behind Magneto.  She
       looks up and sees Logan staring back in agony.

                           JEAN (contíd)
                 ... Please do something.

       Magneto tilts his head slightly, acknowledging Jean, but
       not moving from his task.

                           MYSTIQUE
                 Donít listen to her... itís a trap.

       Magneto turns.

                           MAGNETO
                 What is?

                           MYSTIQUE
                 This is.

       And she grabs the sides of his face and kisses him
       deeply.  There is an awkward moment.  Until:

       MAGNETO CONVULSES.  Once, then again.  Then he struggles
       to be set free.

       And MYSTIQUE TRANSFORMS INTO ROGUE.

       It has been her all along, using SHAPE SHIFTING powers
       borrowed from the real Mystique.

       Magneto fights to get free, but his power is being
       drained from him.

                           JEAN
                 ROGUE, DESTROY THE MACHINE!

       Rogue goes to pull away, BUT MAGNETO WONíT LET HER GO.

       Magneto grabs hold of Rogueís throat -- CHOKING HER.

       INT. TORCH - NIGHT

       Logan looking down, through the hole in the Statueís head
       for Jean, sees Rogue and Magneto struggle.

       Logan watches helplessly as MAGNETO STRANGLES ROGUE.

       LOGAN YELLS -- THE WHITE LIGHT BEGINS TO EMANATE FROM HIS
       BODY.  His flesh starts to SMOLDER.

       INT. STATUE - HEAD - NIGHT

       Magneto is strangling Rogue, who clings to his face --
       drawing his powers.

       The walls GROAN as magnetic energy RIPPLES through the
       Statueís head.

       ANGLE ON:

       Rogue, choking to death, looks frantically at Cyclops for
       help.  She raises one of her hands and uses Magnetoís
       stolen power to BEND BACK THE METAL POINTS so that
       Cyclops is able to move his head again.  Without his
       visor however, he is still unable to open his eyes.

       Magneto, feeling the last of his power draining from him,
       grabs Rogue tightly and SLAMS her into the wall.  Rogue
       slumps in Magnetoís arms and the two collapse to the
       ground.

       INT. TORCH - NIGHT

       The sound from the machine is DEAFENING.  SUDDENLY --

       SILENCE.

       ABSOLUTE SILENCE.

       At the silence, all eyes turn to the torch.

       It is too late -- THE MACHINE IS FULLY CHARGED.

       Loganís eyes tense.  He clenches his teeth.  Logan does
       the unthinkable.

       SHOOK.

       The glowing white claws extend through Loganís chest and
       out his back cutting three metal straps binding him.
       Logan ROARS in pain as he --

       Pulls his claws from his chest.

       SLASH -- his claws rip through the inside of the machine -
       - cutting apart the rings spinning around him.

       The translucent torch of the Statue is CUT TO PIECES BY
       THE FLYING METAL.

       INT. ELLIS ISLAND - GREAT HALL - NIGHT

       The President and the dignitaries turn.  Secret Service
       rush to the window.  A wave of panic sweeps the crowd.

       INT. SECURITY CONTROL CENTER - NIGHT

       The flaming torch lights up one of many screens.

                           OPERATION COMMANDER
                 Liberty one this is Horizon...  I
                 repeat... do you copy?  Liberty one
                 this is Horizon ... I repeat... do you
                 copy?

       EXT. STATUE - TORCH - NIGHT

       Where the flame of the torch once stood, now stands
       Logan, his skeleton cooling down.

       Logan leans on the torchís railing, his chest bleeds from
       the six claw wounds.  Logan is exhausted.  He looks down
       at his comrades still trapped by the metal bands.  And
       Magneto lying powerless on the floor.  SUDDENLY, from
       below --

       A MASSIVE CLAWED HAND strikes Loganís chest.  The blow
       sends Logan sailing back to the far end of the torch.

       Logan lies against the railing.  Opening his eyes he sees
       --

       TWO CLAWED FEET following upward to a very angry, very
       large Sabretooth, towering over him.

       Sabretooth leaps at Logan.  Against the New York skyline
       THEY GO AT IT, SLASHING AND HOWLING.

       EXT. MANHATTAN HARBOR - NIGHT

       Several Coast Guard cutters head full-speed toward
       Liberty Island.

       ANGLE ON: Their decks covered with armed Secret Service.

       EXT. TORCH - NIGHT

       Sabretooth picks up Logan over his head and throws him
       like a rag doll into the railing on the other side of the
       torch.

       Logan struggles to his feet -- dazed.  Suddenly,
       Sabretooth, running at full steam, tackles him.  Slamming
       Logan into the railing.

       The metal railing bends.

       Sabretooth holds Logan by his wrists, trying to push him
       over the edge.  It is several hundred feet to the ground
       below.

       Logan is weakening.  Sabretooth is in complete control,
       he leans down near Loganís ear.

                           SABRETOOTH
                     (whispering)
                 Your girlfriend is next.

       With all his might, Logan pushes his clenched fists as
       close to Sabretoothís face as he can.  SHOOK!  The claws
       pop.  Sabretooth springs back to protect his face.

       LOGAN KICKS WITH ALL HIS MIGHT AND SABRETOOTH flies back
       to the other side of the torch.

       LOGAN leaps up and running at full speed, tackles
       Sabretooth -- like a train plowing into a stalled car.

       The metal railing snaps and they both go flying through
       the air.

       EXT. STATUE - HEAD - NIGHT

       CRACK.

       Sabretooth and Logan slam onto the top of the Statueís
       head.

       Logan rolls off the back of the Statueís head and falls.

       Sabretooth stands and looks over the edge - nothing.  All
       he can see is the Statueís body curving away towards the
       ground.  He smiles, and turns back to the hole.

       EXT. STATUE - HEAD - NIGHT

       ANGLE ON: LOGAN - Hanging from the ear of the Statue, the
       claws of his right hand embedded in the lobe at the end
       of three sets of long claw-marks.

       He looks up.  A look of brutal determination crosses his
       face.  Straining, he pulls himself up by his right arm.
       The cords stand out on his neck as he tries to get to
       shoulder level.  He aims his left claw a little further
       up on the ear and --

       THUNK.

       He drives it in.

       INT. STATUE - HEAD - NIGHT

       WHAM -- E.C.U. Sabretoothís feet as he lands on the metal
       floor.  He quickly takes in the situation, Magneto and
       Rogue are still unconscious.  He walks towards Storm.

       The air in the room starts to CRACKLE and Sabretoothís
       hair begins to stand on end as it did when these two last
       confronted each other.

                           SABRETOOTH
                 I donít think so.

       Sabretooth backhands Storm across the jaw, knocking her
       out.  As her head drops, he draws his claws and slashes
       it down.  It STOPS, just before tearing open Stormís
       throat, HELD BY AN UNSEEN FORCE.  He turns and sees that
       Jean has focused her power in his arm.  He smiles.

       He walks to Jean and tears off her bonds.  He reaches out
       to grab her neck but his claw is stopped again in mid-
       air.  Sabretooth just smiles wider and forces his hand
       forward.  The outcome never really in doubt, the claw
       wraps around Jeanís neck.  She begins to choke.

                           CYCLOPS
                 Jean!

       Sabretooth lifts Jean by the neck and walks away from
       Cyclops as he chokes her.

                           SABRETOOTH
                 Sorry about this sweetheart, but I
                 made Logan a promise.

       Jean struggles desperately against Sabretoothís
       unbreakable grip, the life draining from her.  Then --

                           LOGAN (O.S.)
                 Hey, ya big pussy.

       Sabretooth whips around, still clutching Jean to see -
       LOGAN -

       Bleeding, beaten and panting, and yet still standing
       defiantly over Magnetoís unconscious body.

                           LOGAN (contíd)
                 I ainít finished with you yet.

       Sabretooth looks at him, disbelieving that this man can
       still be standing, let alone challenging him... and he
       starts to laugh.

                           SABRETOOTH
                 You?

       Logan grins.

                           LOGAN
                 Not just me.

       And with that: he extends ONE CLAW from his right hand,
       squats down, and cuts the piece of metal holding Cyclopsí
       visor to Magnetoís belt.  He lifts it up and it slides
       down his claw to his hand.  He casually throws it in the
       air.

                           LOGAN (contíd)
                 Jean?

       Logan looks at the visor and it freezes in the air.

       It flies across the room, right past Sabretoothís head.
       He lunges at it with his free claw but just misses it.

       The visor lands square on Cyclopsí eyes, and attaches
       itself to Cyclopsí face.

       He turns.

       BOOM!

       A focused OPTIC BLAST hits Sabretooth like a FREIGHT
       TRAIN.  He drops Jean and SLAMS THROUGH THE WALL.

       EXT. STATUE - NIGHT

       We see the side of the Statueís head.  Suddenly,
       Sabretooth BLASTS THROUGH THE EYE.

       For a moment Cyclopsí beam continues to fire through the
       eye as if the Statue itself is imitating Cyclopsí power.

       EXT. SEAWALL - NIGHT

       Magnetoís boat still sits quietly next to the seawall.

       CRASH.

       Sabretoothís body SMASHES THROUGH THE ROOF of the boat.
       The tarp flies up and drifts back down to rest over
       Sabretoothís body.

       INT. STATUE - HEAD - NIGHT

       Loganís breathing is strained, a blood stain in the
       middle of his shirt, but he is in control.  Logan looks
       up, his eyes met by Jeanís.

       He walks over to Storm and Cyclops and SHOOK! cuts them
       loose.  Jean and Cyclops catch Storm, who begins to come
       around.

       Cyclops smiles.  Logan kneels down beside Rogue.  He
       wants to comfort her but cannot touch her.  She opens her
       eyes and sees Logan.

                           ROGUE
                 Hey...  There you are.
                     (sudden apprehension)
                 Is it really you?

                           LOGAN
                     (not quite sure what sheís
                      talking about)
                 Yeah, itís really me.

                           CYCLOPS
                 Come on, letís get out of here.

       Logan stands.  He takes a couple of steps before
       collapsing in Cyclopsí arms.

                           LOGAN
                     (sliding to the ground)
                 Iím o.k.  Iím o.k.

                           CYCLOPS
                 Sure you are, sport.

       EXT. LIBERTY ISLAND - DOCK - NIGHT

       Several Coast Guard cutters and police boats reach the
       island.  Men run across the dock as we pull up --

       EXT. LIBERTY ISLAND - NIGHT

       The Coast Guard, Secret Service, and FBI descend upon the
       island.

       INT. OLD TORCH ROOM - NIGHT

       Security enters the smoldering remains of the old torch
       room.  The walls blackened by a past inferno.  At the
       center, Pyro lies motionless in a sea of foam.

       INT. MUSEUM - NIGHT

       Push in on MYSTIQUE who is tied up.  Across her feet a
       crack of light as the door begins to open.  Swish pan
       over to the NYPD entering the room.  Swish pan back.
       Mystique has taken the form of a Secret Service agent.

                           AGENT/MYSTIQUE
                 Hey, could somebody untie me!

       EXT. SEAWALL - NIGHT

       A Secret Service spots the wreckage of Magnetoís boat and
       the large tarp which covers it.  He pulls his gun.

                           SECRET SERVICE MAN #3
                     (to other agents)
                 Hey!  Over here.

       Three other agents pull their guns and aim at the tarp.
       The first agent pulls it back to reveal... nothing.
       Sabretooth is gone.

       INT. STATUE - HEAD - NIGHT

       NYPD and Secret Service rush up the stairs and into the
       head.  Magneto lies unconscious on the floor.

       The lead guy, an NYPD OFFICER in a flak jacket, holding a
       shotgun, stares up at the ceiling.  He peers out through
       the gaping hole.  Beyond the damaged torch the star
       filled sky is momentarily eclipsed by a aircraft -- the X-
       Jet.

       The officer turns to say something, but stops --
       wondering if his eyes were merely playing tricks on him.

       INT. MANSION - DAY

       Cyclops, Jean, Storm, Rogue and about two dozen students
       all sit in front of a wide screen TV watching the Special
       Report on the Mutant Registration Act vote.

       As the Anchorman speaks we move over the concerned looks
       on all of their faces.

                           ANCHORMAN (O.S.)
                 Even after last weeks terrorist
                 vandalization of the Statue of Liberty
                 by an unidentified mutant
                 organization, the outcome of the vote
                 was 51 to 49 in opposition to the
                 Mutant Registration Act.

       A LOUD CHEER as the room erupts into celebration.

                           CYCLOPS
                 Quiet.  Quiet everybody.

                           ANCHORMAN
                 This narrow defeat was probably due in
                 large part to the surprising last-
                 minute reversal by Senator Scott
                 ìFrankî Kelly, who until today
                 provided the loudest voice in the cry
                 for Mutant Registration.  Earlier
                 today, Kelly had this to say:

       The TV cuts to a shot of Kelly being grilled by reporters
       as he walks down the Capitol steps.

                           KELLY
                     (struggling to get through)
                 If we can not go into the future
                 together, the divisions of fear and
                 prejudice will tear this country
                 apart.

       As he is speaking, we cut to:

       INT. CAPITOL BUILDING - WASHINGTON D.C. - DAY

       Kelly pushing past reporters.

                           KELLY
                 No more questions.  Please, no more
                 questions.

       E.C.U. The back of Kellyís neck as he passes.  A BLUE
       SCALE is visible above his collar.

       INT. LOGANíS ROOM - DAY

       The FAINT CHEERS are heard through the walls.

       HAZY THEN FOCUS INTO -- light pushes through blinds.  A
       gentle breeze moves them slightly.

       Logan sits up in his bed, his chest bandaged.

       VRRRIP -- the sound of blinds being pulled open.  Bright
       sunshine fills the room, washing across a box and a card
       sitting on a bureau.

       ANGLE ON: the card as Logan reads it.

       LOGAN -- WELCOME HOME.  It is signed simply, X.

       Logan reaches in the box, pulling out -- a UNIFORM.  He
       lays it on the bed.  He pulls on one of the gloves,
       stretching his fingers in it.  Perfect fit.

       SHOOK -- He pops his claws through THREE METAL RINGLETS
       on the back of the glove -- clearly it was made
       specifically for him.

       Logan looks down into the box for him.

       INT. LOGANíS ROOM - LATER - DAY

       From behind Logan we see him finish putting something on
       over his head.  Logan turns into frame, he is wearing a
       dark blue MASK.

       It fits his head neatly.  The sides arch up shadowing his
       ears, giving him a wolf or fox-like appearance.  The
       shape is reminiscent of Loganís sketch -- the wolverine.

       Logan stands facing a mirror.  The mask looks good on him
       and he seems to know it.

       Xavier is in the doorway.

       Logan pulls off the mask, embarrassed.

                           LOGAN
                 Donít you knock?

                           XAVIER
                 Theyíre all asking how youíre doing.
                 Are you feeling up to saying hello to
                 everyone?

                           LOGAN
                     (pulling the glove off)
                 Actually Iím feeling up to leaving.

       Logan walks over to the closet and pulls out a shirt.  He
       puts it on.

                           XAVIER
                     (surprised)
                 Why?  You have a home here now, if you
                 want it.  Everyone will...

                           LOGAN
                 What?... miss me?  Charley, Iím gonna
                 walk out the front door and trust me,
                 it wonít be soon enough for everyone
                 here.

       Logan pulls a duffle bag out of the closet.

                           LOGAN (contíd)
                 Can I, umm?

                           XAVIER
                 Of course.  Everything in this room is
                 for you.

       Logan seems genuinely touched by the gesture.

                           LOGAN
                 Thanks, Iíll pay you back.

       Logan shoves some clothes into the bag, but not all.

                           XAVIER
                 Well if youíre going to leave then you
                 at least owe them a goodbye.

       Logan smirks.  He picks up his bag.  They exit the room
       together.

       INT. MANSION - DAY

       The celebration continues unabated.  The newscaster on
       the defeat of the Mutant Registration Act muted, in the
       background -- Storm, Jean, and Cyclops all sit around a
       table chatting.  Rogue sits on the couch with other
       students, trying on a new pair of leather gloves.

                           XAVIER (O.S.)
                 Excuse me.
                     (louder)
                 Excuse me.

       Xavier is in the doorway.

                           XAVIER (contíd)
                 Everyone, Logan would like to say...

       Logan steps into the doorway.  Everyone can see him now.
       Before Xavier can finish his sentence he is interrupted
       by --

       APPLAUSE -- simple, genuine, applause.

       Students slowly stand up.  Proud of Logan.  For he is one
       of them.  He is a mutant.  And he is a hero.

       As the unconditional applause echoes around him, Logan
       seems sincerely touched by their spontaneous outpouring.
       He is almost choked up -- almost.

       The applause quiet.

                           XAVIER (contíd)
                 Well, Logan.

       All eyes are on Logan.  Logan pauses.  He looks to
       Xavier, then back to the room.

                           LOGAN
                 Whatís a guy gotta do to get a beer
                 around here?

       Logan puts his duffle bag down.  He walks over to the
       table with Storm, Cyclops and Jean.  Jean smiles at him,
       so does Cyclops -- his arm around the back of her chair.

       Logan sees them together, they are happy, and finally he
       offers a smile.

       Xavier holds for a moment at the door.  A look of pride
       on his face, the pride a father has for his children.

       INT. PLASTIC PRISON - DAY

       A CLEAR PLASTIC HALLWAY

       Thatís right, PLASTIC.  Everything we can see -- walls,
       ceiling, floor -- is made, entirely, of thick, clear
       plastic.

       DOWN THE HALL TO:

       A THICK PLASTIC CELL

       There, in the middle, at the clear plastic desk, with two
       clear plastic cups filled with the only thing of color
       other than the two men in the room.

       Xavier and Magneto.

       They play a friendly game of chess.

       Magneto is notably without his trademark helmet.  Two
       casts encase his legs from his Logan-inflicted injury.

       Xavier is on a modified plastic chair with plastic
       wheels.

                           MAGNETO
                 I wouldnít really have let you die,
                 you know.  I just needed...

                           XAVIER
                     (interrupting)
                 I know.

       Magneto thinks for a while; then:

                           MAGNETO
                 Doesnít it ever wake you in the middle
                 of the night?  The feeling that some
                 day, some day very soon, they will
                 pass that foolish law - or one just
                 like it - and they will come for you
                 and your children?  Take you all away?

                           XAVIER
                 It does indeed, Max.

                           MAGNETO
                 And what do you do when you wake up to
                 that?

                           XAVIER
                 I feel a great swell of pity for the
                 poor soul who comes to that school
                 again looking for trouble.

       He stares right at Magneto.

       Xavier makes a move, Magneto counters.  Xavier moves
       again.

                           MAGNETO
                 But you know that it is a war, old
                 friend.  And to win a war it takes the
                 will to fight it at all costs, by any
                 means necessary.  And for that reason,
                 I will always have the advantage.  No
                 matter how you trap me, how I am
                 contained -

       Chess pieces seem to visually mimic their conversation
       Xavierís white pieces slowly surrounding Magnetoís Black
       King.

                           MAGNETO (contíd)
                 - I will always find an escape.

                           XAVIER
                 And I will always be there, old
                 friend.

       And with that, Xavier places his queen gently down,
       taking away a knight.

                           XAVIER (contíd)
                 Check.

       Just then, the door to the cell opens.  A Guard waits.

       Magneto and Xavier stare at one another before Xavier
       turns and wheels himself out of the room.

       The door closes behind him, leaving Magneto alone with
       his plastic chess set in his plastic cell.

       And Magneto looks at the pieces before him.  Something
       occurs to him.  He smiles a wicked smile.

       And his rook LEVITATES, despite its properties, moving
       across the board and toppling Xavierís king.

                           MAGNETO
                 And mate.

       BLACK

         Scripts.com




How the Grinch Stole
      Christmas
       By Jeffrey Price




           Page 1/26
Narrator:
happened a story you must see to believe. Way up in the mountains, in the
high range of Pontoos lay the small town of Whoville: The home of the Whos.
Ask any Who, And they'll have this to say: "There is no place like Whoville
around Christmas Day."
Every window was flocked, every lamppost was dressed and the Whoville band
marched in their Christmasy best.
Merry Christmas! Merry Christmas!
Arbor Day was fine, and Easter was pleasant and every Saint Fizzin's day,
they ate a Fizz pheasant.
But every Who knew, from their twelve toes to their snout they loved
Christmas the most, without a single Who doubt.
Farfingle's welcomes you!
Thank you.
Merry Christmas! Thank you for shopping Farfingle's!

Father:
snoozlephone for your brother Stu, a muncle for your uncle a fant for your
aunt and a fandpa for your cousin Leon.
So, we just need.... Cindy?
Sale on Aisle 3!
Cindy Lou!
Merry Christmas.
Hello, Myrna. Merry Christmas, Fred. Excuse me.
Cindy Lou? Honey?

Cindy:

Father:

Cindy:

Father:

Cindy:
Merry Christmas!
Thank you for shopping Farfingle's. Wait a second! Your change!
Another minute closer to Christmas!
And, for the next five minutes only, 99 percent off!

Narrator:
the Grinch, who lived just north of Whoville- did not.
Get on it, girls. All the good mistletoe's at the top.


                                 Page 2/26
Hey, Drew, I'll race you!
Not if I race you first.
Last one to the top is a stinky old Grinch!
You guys, where are we? I think we should go back.
What? You're scared of the Grinch!
No!
They say he lives up here in a big cave. And only comes down when he's
hungry for the taste of Who flesh!
Drew!
You're scared of the Grinch! You're scared of the Grinch!
Are too!
Am not!
Wait for me!
Go on, touch it. Touch the door.
Do it for me, Stu.
Well done, Max!
Serves them right, those Yuletide-loving sickly-sweet, nog-sucking cheer
mongers!
I really don't like them.
No, I don't.
Max!
Get my cloak!
I've been much too tolerant of these Whovenile delinquents and their
innocent, victimless pranks.
So, they want to get to know me, do they?
They want to spend a little quality time with the Grinch.
I guess I could use a little social interaction.
Merry Christmas!
Yeah, you bet.
Ho, ho, ho, and stuff.
Oh, my.
Someone has vandalized that vehicle.
You see, Max? The city is a dangerous place.

Narrator:
Top of the day. Flatfoot.

Narrator:
Here's a present for you.
Be sure to run real fast with it. Come on. Double time. Move.

Narrator:
it could be, perhaps, That his shoes were too tight.
But I think that the most likely reason of all, May have been that his


                                 Page 3/26
heart Was two sizes too small.
Stranger, won't let you go till you buy a chapeau!

Father:

Cindy Lou:

Father:

Dad! Dad!
What happened to you?
It was the Grinch!
The Grinch?!
What do you want? I mean....
"Grinch? Oh, no!"

Mayor:

Father:
Lou.

Mayor:
one thousandth Whobilation, Whoville's most important celebration!
And the Book of Who ( pulling out a large book) says very clearly "Every
size of Who we can measure knows that Whobilation is a time we must
treasure!"
Now, Lou, please tell me that your boys were not up on Mount Crumpit
provoking the one creature within a billion bilometers of here who hates
Christmas!
But it was the Grinch!
No, sir, the boys didn't see any Grinch.
It was, and he came after...
I think they were up on the mountain playing with matches, or defacing
public property, or....
That's a relief.
All right, you heard the man: There is no Grinch problem here.
I need it there by tomorrow.
Heck of a rush.
Merry Christmas, Mo. Heck of a rush.
But, Dad I just don't understand something.
Why won't anyone talk about the Grinch?
You kids and the Grinch!
You see, Cindy, the Grinch is a Who, who always....
Actually, not a Who. He's more of a....


                                 Page 4/26
A what?
Exactly, honey.
And he's a What who doesn't like Christmas.
Take a look at his mailbox, sweetie.
Not a single Christmas card, in or out.
Ever!
But why?
Lou, where's my mail?
Lou! Got the wrong mail here.
Lou! I got the wrong mail!
I'll be right there.
Lou, we got a problem!
All right, we'll straighten this out.
It'll take them years to sort this out.
This is his and now it's yours, and this hers and now it's his!
And for the rest of you: Jury duty! Jury duty! Jury duty!
Blackmail. Pink slip. Chain letter. Eviction notice.
Jury duty!
Would you mind helping me take this to the back room, honey?
Be careful of the sorting machine, right?
Yeah.
Gesundheit.
You're the....
The....
The Grinch!
That worked out nicely.
Help!
Help me! Somebody!
Max, let's go.
Our work here is finished.
Help me!
Please help!
That is not a chew toy!
Stop it, Max!
Get that out of your mouth! You have no idea where it's been!
Help!
Bleeding hearts of the world, unite!
There! Give me that!
Don't you know you shouldn't take things that don't belong to you?
What's the matter with you, some kind of a wild animal? Huh?!
Let's go.
Thanks for saving me.
Saving you?
Is that what you think I was doing?


                                 Page 5/26
Wrong-o.
I merely noticed that you were improperly packaged, my dear.
Hold still!
Max, pick out a bow.
Can I use your finger for a second?
Hello! Hello!
Cindy?
Dad!
Daddy!
Daddy!
What the hey...?
Honey.
Cindy?
Dad! It was amazing!
You've been practicing your Christmas wrapping!
I am so proud of you.
Now, that's holiday.
Sweet little Cindy didn't know what to do.
In her head, bum-tumbled a conflict or two.
"If the Grinch was so bad,then why did he save me?
"Maybe he wasn't so bad."
Maybe. Just maybe.
No lights on in the house. Your mom must be shopping.
Good, I'm so glad you're home.
I can feel it, Lou. This is the year.
When everybody asks who has the most spectacular lights in greater Whoville
they're gonna cry out, "Mrs. Betty Lou Who!"
Isn't this the chandelier from the dining room?
It's all for the cause, dear.
And Cindy? Could you be Mommy's little helper and unscrew the bulb there
from the refrigerator?
'Cause somehow I missed that one.
Go on!
Every year Martha May Whovier has the best lights.
Not this year.
This year I'm gonna beat that prim, perfect little prissy...
Betty!
Hi!
Martha!
My, I've never seen so many beautiful Christmas lights, Betty Lou!
I'd blow every fuse if I tried to keep up with you, Martha May!
Isn't this antique darling?
It's handcrafted and almost 100 years old.
Jeez. I'm really impressed!


                                 Page 6/26
This, however, is new.
Betty! Sweetie!
Good night, Betty.
I got it!
Honey, I've got it.
Hello?
Is my sub-zero chillibrator running?
I suppose.
You better go catch it!
That's a good one! That is rich.
Let's go home.
Fleas before beauty. Thank you.
Come on, hurry up, Slowpoke.
There's got to be a better way!
A car would have paid for itself by now!
Goody. Another load coming down.
What's that stench?
It's fantastic!
Max! Grab a bag.
We'll come back for the rest.
Of course, when I say "we, " I mean "you."
It's amazing what these Whos just throw away.
Oh, well.
One man's toxic sludge is another man's potpourri.
I don't know. It's some kind of soap.
"Where are you, Christmas? "Why can't I find you? "Why have you gone away?
"My world is changing "I'm rearranging "Does that mean Christmas "changes
too? "Where are you, Christmas? "Do you remember "The girl you used to
know? "You and I were so carefree "Now nothing's easy "Did Christmas change
"Or just "me?"
Sweet!
"Be it ever so "Heinous "There's no place like home"
First floor, factory rejects.
Those Whos are hard to frazzle, Max!
But we did our worst. And that's all that matters.
At least I scared the bejeebles out of that little girl at the post office.
She'll be scarred for life, if we're lucky.
Funny she didn't rat on us, though.
Must be afraid of reprisals.
Yes!
Down a size and a half!
And this time, I'll keep it off.
Get the stick, Max. Get the stick!
There's no stick!


                                 Page 7/26
I'm smarter.
Any calls?
You have no messages.
Odd. Better check the outgoing.
If you utter so much as one syllable I'll hunt you down and gut you like a
fish!
If you'd like to fax me, press the star key.
Oh, well.
That's more like it.
Excellent year.
I'll tell you, Max I don't know why I ever leave this place.
I've got all the company I need right here.
Hello!
Hello!
How are you?
How are you?
I asked you first!
I asked you first!
That's really mature, saying exactly what I say!
Mature...exactly...what I say....
I'm an idiot!
You're an idiot!
All right, fine.
I'm not talking to you anymore. In fact, I'm going to whisper.
So that by the time my voice reverberates off the walls and gets back to me
I won't be able to hear it!
You're an idiot!
Am I just eating because I'm bored?
Who could that be?
Hello, little girl. Are you here to read to us?
No.
I hear you know some things about the Grinch.
Cindy Lou had some questions in her curious heart.
Why did the Grinch hate Christmas? Where did it all start?
With her dad's blabbacorder she wouldn't give an inch.
In your own words, please tell me everything you know about the Grinch.
Where did he come from?
He came the way all Who babies come.
On calm nights baby Who girls and tiny Who fellas drift from the sky in
their own pumbersellas.
Hey, honey, our baby is here!
He looks just like your boss.
So that's how it works.
It was Christmas Eve, and a strange wind blew that night.


                                 Page 8/26
We were having our annual holiday get-together.
It was morning before anybody realized that he was out there!
The poor dear!
But, you know what?
We knew right away that he was special.
Do you want a Christmas cookie?
Yes, which Christmas cookie would you like?
Santa.
His first words!
Yes, that is a Santa plate.
Do you want to hold this Santa plate?
Santa, bye-bye!
He was a wonderful whatever he was.
And we raised him like any other Who child: With a deep love of Christmas.
Don't forget, tomorrow is our big Christmas gift exchange.
Everyone bring a special gift for a special someone.
The Grinch....
He had no sense of color coordination.
Although I hardly remember him. I didn't have time to socialize.
I was far too busy with my studies.
Now, class, is everyone almost finished?
And if the truth be told, he....
He liked Martha.
Martha was my girlfriend.
I don't like discussing this Grinch so very close to Christmas, but maybe
if you hear the truth, you'll understand why...
Put your back into it!
I tried to take him under my wing.
You don't have a chance with her. You're 8 years old and you have a beard!
He had hair. Not pleasant.
He shed.
Not right.
You know, Christmas is my favorite time of year.
I just love the colors.
The red and the green.
Did I have a crush on the Grinch?
Of course not.
I didn't ask you that.
Right.
For some reason, when he came home that day he really got into the
Christmas spirit for the first time.
Perfect!
Whoopsie!
What a lovely family heirloom!


                                 Page 9/26
The fires of love!
This will be perfect on the top of her tree.
Oh, Martha! Oh, Christmas!
I want you all to look your best tomorrow.
You don't have a chance with her.
You're 8 years old and you have a beard!
Has everyone given their gifts?
I haven't.
What?
Merry Christmas, Martha May.
Why do you have a bag on your head?
Probably because he's embarrassed by that hideodorous gift.
Mr. Grinch please take the bag off.
Yes, you.
Take it off.
Put the book down.
And your foot.
Look at that hack job!
Stupid present!
Stupid tree!
I hate Christmas!
The anger.
The fury!
The muscles!
It was a horrible day when they were so cruel to him.
And I could hardly bear it.
I hate Christmas! I hate it!
And that was the last time we ever saw him.
The very last time.

Narrator:
outside his cave, Hating the Whos.
Alphabetically.
Aardvarkian Abakenezer Who.
l... HATE YOU!!!!
Aaron B. Benson Who, I hate you.
Hate, hate, hate. Hate, hate, hate.
Double hate.
Loathe entirely!

Grinch:

Narrator:
It's practically here!


                                 Page 10/26
Grinch:
Now to take care of those pesky memories.
"Whobilation, plentiful with candy canes and pies "I can't wait to get
there to eat some google fries "Whobilation, Whobilation"
Dad?
Yeah.
I've been thinking about the Whobilation and I may do something drastic.
That's fine, dear. Ask your mother.
Where did she go?
Honey!
Honey! Hi!
Look, I just found the cutest light for my Christmas display.
Hurry up, we're gonna be late. Come on.
And now, the nominations for that Who among us who best typifies the
qualities of Whodom and Whodery the Whoville holiday cheer-meister!
Do I hear a nomination?
I nominate the Grinch!
Huh?!
The Grinch?
The Grinch?
My, my, my.
What an altruistic daughter you have there, Lou!
Thank you.
Cindy?
Let me quote a verse from The Book of Who.
Thank you.
"The term 'Grinchy' shall apply when Christmas spirit is in short supply."

Now, I ask you:
True, Mr. May-Who. But The Book of Who says this too:
"No matter how different a Who may appear... "...he will always be welcomed
with holiday cheer."
Yes, the book also says, the....
"The award "cannot go to the Grinch, because "sometimes things get the
lead-pipe cinch."
You made that up! It doesn't say that.
No, it does.
What page?
Lost my place, but it's....
It's in here!
But the book does say:
"The cheer-meister is the one who deserves a back slap or a toast. "And it
goes to the soul at Christmas who needs it most."


                                 Page 11/26
And I believe that soul is the Grinch.
And if you're the Whos I hope you are, you will too.
She's right!
Fine.
You people want to waste a perfectly good nomination why, it's up to you.
But I am telling you the Grinch will never come down.
And when he doesn't, the Mayor will wear the crown.
Well, more or less.
"Deck your heart with jollity "Style your smile all Christmasy "Flick some
flocking on the tree "Let there be Whobilation "Bake the fruitcake, egg the
nog "Feed the flaming Wholtide log "Baste the beast and gulp the grog "Let
there be Whobilation "Tick, tock, tick, tock "Counting down the Christmas
clock "Old, young, big, small"
Blast this Christmas music.
It's joyful and triumphant.
Must drown them out!
Not working!
The whipper-winds whipped high above the Who town.
A trip or a slip you'd slide all the way down.
But this girl had a mission. She knew what to do.
She'd invite the Grinch herself, that brave Cindy Lou.
Play, monkey! Play!
Howdy?
Mr. Grinch?
Mr. Grinch!
Hello?
Excuse me.
Hello little girl.
How dare you enter the Grinch's lair?
The impudence! The audacity!
The unmitigated gall!
You called down the thunder now, get ready for the boom!
Gaze into the face of fear!
Mr. Grinch my name is Cindy Lou Who.
You see?
Even now the terror is welling up inside you.
I'm not scared.
Denial is to be expected in the face of pure evil.
I don't think so.
Doubt?
Another unmistakable sign of the heebie-jeebies!
Now you're doomed!
Run for your life before I kill again!
I'm a psycho!


                                 Page 12/26
Danger! Danger!
Maybe you need a time-out.
Kids today.
So desensitized by movies and television.
What do you want?!
Mr. Grinch, I came to invite you to be holiday cheer-meister.
"Holiday Whobie-what-y"?
Cheer-meister.
"Cheer-meister. Celebrate with friends."
That's a good one.

Cindy Lou:
all just a misunderstanding?

Grinch:

Cindy Lou:
[The Grinch pretends to snore]

Cindy Lou:
Christmas...

Grinch:
the Whos and be a part of Christmas." [normal voice] Grow up!

Cindy Lou:

Grinch:
appointment with the receptionist on the way out.
Please, please. You have to accept the award.
Award?
You never mentioned an award!
Yeah, with a trophy and everything.
And I won?
You won!
That means there were losers.
I guess.
So, if you come...
A town full of losers!
I like it.
Was anyone emotionally shattered?
Come on, a minute ago I couldn't shut you up! Details, details!
The Mayor wasn't happy.
Oh, no.


                                 Page 13/26
Martha May will be there.
She will?
And she'll see me.
A winner.
She'll be on me like fleegle flies on a flat-faced   floogle horse.
I'm sorry to disappoint you, Martha, baby, but the   G train has left the
station.
So, will you come?
All right.
I don't know if it's that adorable twinkle in your   eye or that
nonconformist streak that reminds me of a younger,   less hairy me.
But you've convinced me.
Who knows? This Whobilation could change my entire   outlook on life!
Really?
No.
There you are, honey.
You can make snow angels later.
We can't be late for the Whobilation!
The nerve of those Whos.
Inviting me down there on such short notice.
Even if I wanted to go, my schedule wouldn't allow   it.

"4:
solve world hunger tell no one. "5:30, jazzercise. "6:30, dinner with me."
I can't cancel that again.

"7:
I'm booked.
If I bumped the loathing to 9:00, I'd have time to lay in bed stare at the
ceiling and slip slowly into madness.
But what would I wear?
It's not a dress, it's a kilt!
Sicko!
Stupid.
Ugly.
Out of date.
This is ridiculous.
If I can't find something nice to wear, I'm not going!
That's it, I'm not going.
It's time for our Holiday Cheer-meister of the Year Award!
Congratulations, Mr. Grinch!
He isn't here.
What?
He didn't show?


                                 Page 14/26
Who could have predicted this?
All right. I'll swing by for a minute, allow them to envy me grab a handful
of popcorn shrimp, and blow out of there.
But what if it's a cruel prank? What if it's a cash bar?
How dare they?
All right, I'll go.
But I'll be fashionably late.
No. Yes. No. Yes. No!
Yes!
Definitely not!
All right. I've made my decision!
I'm going, and that's that.
Had my fingers crossed.
Maybe I should flip a coin!
I guess the award goes to the runner-up.
That's right. A man for whom Christmas comes not once a year but every
minute of every day.
A handsome, noble man.
A man who has had his tonsils removed twice!
That's an interesting story.
You see, what happened was...
Hello, Martha.
He made it!
Cindy.
Honey!
Look...
Hot crowd. Hot crowd.
I believe I'm here to accept an award of some kind.
And the child mentioned a check.
No, I didn't.
All right, then, give me the award.
Come on, while I'm young!
Don't you worry, Mr. Holiday Cheer-meister, you'll get your award.
But first, a little family reunion.
They nursed you. They clothed you.
Here they are your old biddies!
Are you two still living?
We missed you!
Rose. The sweater. The sweater, Rose.
Sweater? What are you talkin' about? No, I can't!
I can't do that!
Don't touch me there!
Put him in the Chair of Cheer!
Chair of Cheer?


                                 Page 15/26
What's the Chair of Cheer?
You didn't tell me about the Chair of Cheer.
Please, Mr. Grinch.
No. I can't do it, honestly.
I'm not ready. It's too much, too soon!
It's that time of year.
The Cheer-meister's ride in the Chair of Cheer!
Put me down! I mean it!
I've got a lawyer.
There'll be hell to pay!
First, you'll put your taste buds to the test as you judge the Who pudding
cook-off!
Mine first.
I really don't know...
No, mine's the best!
You'll enjoy this!
This is not pudding.
What is it?
This is mine. Yummy, yummy, yummy.
Christmas conga!
Look at the time. I really should be getting back.
All right!
Fruitcake, tra-la-la!
No.
Fudge Judge.
Made it myself.
Yeah? Mine are homemade too.
Okay.
Put it in. Bring it on!
Is that all you got?
Is that all you got? Come on.
Out of the way, slow-mo!
Excuse me.
He's number one in the sack race run!
Number one! I'm number one!
I'm number one!
No child can beat the Grinch!
I beat you.
He won!
And now it's time for the moment we've all been waiting for.
Yes! My award.
Write the check.
There's no check.
Are you sure? Because I thought I heard someone mention a check.


                                 Page 16/26
I said, there's no check. And now it's time for Present Pass-it-on!
As always, we start with our Cheer-meister.
The gift of a Christmas shave.
Look at that hack job!
Yes, yes, yes. Good times!
Good times.
And now, I have a little something for the love of my life.
Martha May please become Mrs. Augustus May-Who.
Augustus.... If you agree to be my wife along with a lifetime supply of
happiness, you'll also receive this: It's a new car!
Generously provided by the taxpayers of Whoville!
What do you say, Martha?
You got 20 seconds on the clock.
I....
These gifts are quite dazzling.
Of course they are.
That's what it's all about, isn't it?
That's what it's always been about!
Gifts!
Gifts.
Gifts, gifts, gifts.
You want to know what happens to your gifts?
They all come to me. In your garbage.
You see what I'm saying?
In your garbage!
I could hang myself with all the bad Christmas neckties I found at the
dump!
And the avarice.
The avarice never ends!
"I want golf clubs." "I want diamonds." "I want a pony, so I can ride it
twice, get bored, and sell it to make glue."
Look, I don't want to make waves, but this whole Christmas season is
stupid, stupid, stupid!
There is, however one teeny-tiny Christmas tradition I find quite
meaningful.
Mistletoe.
Now, pucker up and kiss it, Whoville!
Somebody's fabulous!
All right, your turn! Go on!
Let's go!
No!
Excuse me, old-timer.
Mind if I wet my whistle?
That's my good stuff!


                                 Page 17/26
Burn, baby! Burn!
The Whomanity!
Let's go! Come on!
No, wait!
Do something.
Right!
Calling all units. Calling all units.
Taxi!
It's because I'm green, isn't it?
Halt!
Evening, folks. Mind if I ride along?
You might want to scooch over.
You did the right thing.
Out of the way!
That's gonna hurt in the morning.
It's gonna blow!
You fellas all right?
How about a nice hat?
Lou?
I'm hurt, Lou.
I'm hurt, and I don't hurt easily.
But you and your family....
I'm so disappointed.
Can we just get back to Christmas the way it should be?
Grinch-less?
Merry Christmas!
Merry Christmas!
I just wanted everybody to be together for Christmas.
I quite enjoyed that.
I hope I get another invite soon.
Come on, come on!
Good thing we have a spare.
Suffering snorkelblatz!
They're relentless!
Only four hours till Christmas!

Narrator:
would wake bright and early and rush for their toys. Grinch: And then, oh
the noise! Oh the noise, noise, noise noise!



Narrator:
they'll feast, and they'll feast. Grinch: And they'll feast feast feast
feast!


                                 Page 18/26
They'll eat their Who-pudding and rare Who roast beast! And that's
something I just Can not stand in the least.
Oh, no. I'm speaking in rhyme!
Blast you Whos!

Narrator:
bring, the more the Grinch thought Grinch: I must stop this whole thing.
Why for year after year I've put up with it now. I must stop this Christmas
from coming - But how?
I mean, in what way?
"Christmas is goin' to the dogs "We're scoffing down the turkey and the
grog "Things are looking very good, it's true"
Are you having a holly, jolly Christmas?
Wrong-o!
If you're not going to help me then you might as well....

Narrator:
wonderful, Awful idea.

Grinch:
Narrator: The Grinch laughed in his throat. And he made a quick Santy Claus
hat and coat.
And he chuckled and clucked At this great Grinchy trick. Grinch: With this
coat and this hat, I'll look just like St. Nick.

I asked for three-quarters, not five-eighths.
Stay focused!

Air bag is a little slow.
But that's what these tests are for!

Fat boy should be finishing up anytime now.
Talk about a recluse.
He only comes out once a year, and he never catches any flak for it!
Probably lives up there to avoid the taxes.
Merry Christmas!
Oopsie.

Grinch:
Grinch? No.
The Grinch simply said: If I can't find a reindeer I'll make one instead.
Oh, Max!
So he called his dog Max Grinch: MAX!!!! And he took some red thread, And
tied a big horn On top of his head.


                                 Page 19/26
All right.
You're a reindeer. Here's your motivation.
You're Rudolph, a freak with a red nose, nobody likes you.
Then one day, Santa picks you and you save Christmas.
No, forget that part. We'll improvise.
Just keep it kind of loosey-goosey.
You hate Christmas! You're gonna steal it!
Saving Christmas was a lousy ending. Way too commercial.
Action!
Brilliant!
You reject your own nose because it represents the glitter of
commercialism!
Why didn't I think of that?
Cut, print, check the gate. Moving on.
That feels good.
Here goes nothin', hot dog!
Wow!
This is nuts!
On, Crasher! On, Thrasher!
On, Vomit and Blitzkrieg!
We're gonna die!
We're gonna die!
I'm going to throw up, and then I'm gonna die!
Mommy, tell it to stop!
Almost lost my cool there.

Welcome to Whoville, Max.
Betty?
Betty?
What?
Did you hear something?
It's Santa!
Go right back to sleep.

He'd slide down the chimney, a rather tight pinch, But if Santa could do
it, then so could the Grinch.

Grinch:
2-and-a-half with a combo tuck and pike. High degree of difficulty.

Narrator:
Blasted water weight! Goes right to my hips.




                                 Page 20/26
Grinch:

Narrator:

Grinch:

Narrator:



Narrator:
Slunk?
He eyed the Whos' feast. He took the Who pudding. He took the roast beast.
Hike!

Then he stuffed all the food up the chimney with glee. (Grinch throws bag
up the "chimney") Grinch: And now-- Narrator: grinned the Grinch--- Grinch:
I'll stuff up the tree.

Narrator:
when he heard a small sound like the coo of a dove.
(Cindy Lou Enters in Pajamas)

Cindy Lou:

Narrator:
got out of be for a cup of cold water.

Cindy Lou:

Narrator:
he thought up a lie, and he thought it up quick.

Grinch:
lied. Grinch: There's a light on this tree That won't light on one side.

Santa, what's Christmas really about?
Vengeance!
I mean presents I suppose.
I was afraid of that.

Santa?
What?
Don't forget the Grinch.
I know he's mean and hairy and smelly.


                                 Page 21/26
His hands might be cold and clammy.
But I think he's actually kind of sweet.
Sweet?
You think he's sweet?
Merry Christmas, Santa.

Narrator:
Nice kid. Bad judge of character.
...he went to the chimney and stuffed the tree up.
And the last thing he took was the log for their fire. On their walls he
left nothing but some hooks and some wire.
And the one speck of food that he'd left in the house was a crumb that was
even too small for a mouse.
Then he slithered and slunk with a smile most unpleasant, around each Who
home and he took every present.
Clearance sale.
Everything must go.
What now?
Martha have you ever kissed a man who lost his tonsils twice?
No, silly!
But it's an experience that I've always longed for.
Kiss me, you fool!
What are you laughing at Rudolph?
It's all you, Maxie!
3,000 feet up, up the side of Mount Crumpit he rode with his load to the
tiptop to dump it.
We did it!
We did it! We did it!
That wasn't so bad, was it, Max?

Grinch:
All those Whos down in Whoville Will all cry What an embarrassment! I've
been robbed!
Mayor May-Who?! Oh, dearest me!
I wonder who could have done this.
Tell you people one thing: Invite the Grinch destroy Christmas.
Invite the Grinch destroy Christmas!
But did anyone listen to me?
I did.
No.
You choose to listen to a little not-to-be-taken-seriously girl who hasn't
even grown into her nose yet.
Cindy, I hope you're very proud of what you've done.
If she isn't, I am.


                                 Page 22/26
Father:
What?
I.... I'm glad.
He's glad.

Mayor:
the Grinch virtually wrecked.... No, not wrecked, pulverized Christmas. Is
that what I'm hearing?

Father:
the gifts or the contests or the fancy lights. That's what Cindy's been
trying to tell everyone! And me. She's been trying to tell me.

Mayor:

Father:
don't need anything more for Christmas than this right here, my family!
Who's all cheering: Merry Christmas, everybody!
Merry Christmas!
Merry Christmas, you hunk of burnin' Who!
Give me a break.
Merry Christmas!
Mr. Grinch?
Mr. Grinch?
Now for the final note in my symphony of downright nasty not-niceness!
The crescendo of my odious opus!
The wailing and the gnashing of teeth.
The bellowing of the bitterly bummed out!
It'll be like music to my ears!

Narrator:
started in low, Then it started to grow.
But the sound wasn't sad. Why, this sounded merry. But it was merry. Very.
Every Who down in Whoville, The tall and the small, were singing without
any presents at all.
He hadn't stopped Christmas from coming. It came. Grinch: Somehow or other,
it came Just the same!
Mr. Grinch?

Narrator:
Stood puzzling, and puzzling.

Grinch:


                                 Page 23/26
tags! It came without packages, boxes or bags!

Narrator:
the Grinch thought of something he hadn't before.

Grinch:
Christmas, perhaps, means a little bit more.
(Grinch in pain - heart is growing)
Max! Help me! I'm feeling!

Narrator:
the Grinch's small heart grew three sizes that day.
What's happening to me?
I'm all... toasty inside.
And I'm leaking.
Oh, Max.
I love you!
All right, that's enough. Knock it off. Beat it!
Get out of here!
One step at a time.
No. The sleigh. The presents.
They'll be destroyed!
And I care!
What is the deal?
Wait!
This can't happen!
It shouldn't! It couldn't! It mustn't! It wouldn't!
Not now, not then, not ever again!
No!
Oh, well.
It's just toys, right?
Hi, Mr. Grinch!
Cindy Lou?!
What are you doing up there?
I came to see you. No one should be alone on Christmas.
No!

Grinch:

Cindy Lou:
Spread eagle! Nailed it!
Are you all right?
Are you kiddin'?
The sun is bright and the powder's bitchin'!


                                 Page 24/26
Now scoot over! It's my turn to drive!
I'd better slow this buggy down!
We're gonna crash!
Now you listen to me, young lady!
Even if we're horribly mangled there'll be no sad faces on Christmas.
What is it?
Help!
Cindy!
Grinch?
My baby!
Grab an end.
By the way, these lights match your outfit perfectly.
This could be more difficult to negotiate.
Heads up, Whoville!
Hurry! Here he comes!
Out of the way! I have no insurance!
Yeah!
Run for your lives!
Watch out, I can't stop!
Daddy, move!
Dad, move it!
Thanks for the help.
Hi, Daddy!
Hi, Cindy, honey!
Merry Christmas one and all!
Cindy!
Mommy!
All right.
What do we have here?
You got me, Officer!
I did it!
I'm the Grinch that stole Christmas.
And I'm sorry.
Aren't you gonna cuff me?
Put me in a choke hold? Blind me with pepper spray?
You heard him, Officer. He admitted it.
I'd go with the pepper spray.
Yes, I heard him, all right.
He said he was sorry.
Besides, it looks like everything is all here and accounted for.
Help me out here, people.
Martha?
Merry Christmas, August May-Who!
I'm afraid I do have something for you!


                                 Page 25/26
Your ring back.
Sorry but my heart belongs to someone else.
No hard feelings?
Cheer up, dude. It's Christmas.
Merry Christmas, Mr. Grinch.
Your cheek is so....
I know.
Hairy?
No.
Greasy?
Stinky? Do I have a zit?
No.
Warm.



Narrator:
And he - he himself, the Grinch, carved the roast beast.
Yeah!
There's nothin' like the holidays.
Who wants the gizzard?
I do!
Too late!
That'll be mine.




                                 Page 26/26


                       MISSION IMPOSSIBLE 2


                               By

                           Robert Towne





                                                  Revised. 12/4/99







     NOTE: THE HARD COPY OF THIS SCRIPT CONTAINED SCENE NUMBERS
     AND SOME "SCENE OMITTED" SLUGS. THEY HAVE BEEN REMOVED FOR
     THIS SOFT COPY.




     FADE IN:

     A WORN SATCHEL (MOVING - DAY)
    
     is being carried by a world weary middle European wearing a black 
     armband.  VLADIMIR NEKHORVICH exits a gleaming building, pausing 
     for a moment, under a motto clearly visible above his head, 
     'Where the future is now'.  He checks the time.

     INSERT - WATCH

     set in Countdown Mode.  It's at 19 hours forty-seven minutes and 
     sixteen seconds and dropping, 19:37.15,  :14,  :13,  :12 etc.

     O.S. children are singing:

                Ring a ring a rosy/a pocketful of posy/
                a tissue a tissue/we all fall down.

     Nekhorvich looks to see children at play outside the adjacent 
     Natural History Museum.  They are moving in and around an odd
     freeform sculpture.

     POV - SCULPTURE AND CHILDREN

     a blur where the sculpture seems to be distorting the children, 
     almost like mirrors in a fun house.

     NEKHORVICH 

     wipes his eyes, a horn honks.  He looks toward the sound.

     MOVING SHOT - SATCHEL (INT. AIRPORT SECURITY - DAY)

     on the belt that takes it thru X-Ray.  On the other side a guard 
     opens the satchel and pokes thru a few toilet articles, personal 
     items, books, a battleship gray digital camera and - in a small 
     plastic container marked 'S.G.' - a small, square shiny object, 
     hi-tech and at odds with the other items.  She pulls out an urn-
     shaped vessel.

                                GUARD
                What's this, then?

                                NEKHORVICH 
                        (handing her documents)
                The ashes of a colleague, I'm taking them
                to his family.  If you wish to open it,
                please be careful.

     COMPUTERIZED SCREEN DISPLAY (INT. PLANE - MOVING - DAY)

     on the cabin wall displays a colorful map showing the flight 
     point of departure in Sydney, continuously updating distance, 
     direction and time to its ultimate destination, Atlanta, Georgia.

                                CAPTAIN'S VOICE
                - folks, we're a little over two and a 
                half hours from touchdown in Atlanta, but 
                if you look out your windows on either 
                side of the aircraft, we'll soon be 
                crossing the southern section of the Rocky 
                Mountains, a range which includes more 
                than 50 peaks rising above 14,000 feet.  
                The chain's loftiest point, Mount Elbert, 
                at 14, 433 feet should be coming into view 
                as we pass over central Colorado shortly..

     NEKHORVICH (INT. CABIN - DAY)

     seems intent on the map, its changing times and distance.  He  
     checks his watch - the countdown has gone from 20 to three hours 
     and 32 minutes as Nekhorvich is mesmerized by the descending 
     seconds whipping by.

     ETHAN HUNT sits into shot on the vacant first class aisle seat 
     beside Nekhorvich.

                                ETHAN
                You keep staring at that watch as if your
                life depended on it, Doctor..

                                NEKHORVICH 
                Well, yes.  I suppose I am a bit anxious.

                                ETHAN
                They're ready and waiting.  You'll soon be 
                with old friends.

                                NEKHORVICH 
                        (meaning Ethan)
                I'm with an old friend now, Dmitri.

                                ETHAN
                Sorry it couldn't be under happier 
                circumstances.

                                NEKHORVICH 
                Yes, I'm sorry too.. 'You're sorry and I'm
                sorry..'
                        (bemused laughter, then looks at Ethan)
                - you do know Gradski thought the world of you.

     Nekhorvich is overcome.  Ethan puts a comforting hand on his  
     shoulder:

                                ETHAN
                He was quite a man.  Did he know before 
                the end you two had succeeded?

                                NEKHORVICH 
                Yes, he knew.  Just..

                                ETHAN
                ..not in time to save him.

                                NEKHORVICH 
                No.  After you've lived with Chimera for 
                twenty hours, nothing can save you.  Not 
                even...Bellerophon.

     Nekhorvich pats the satchel.

                                ETHAN
                You carry them together?  Safely?

     With an almost impish grin and a wink:

                                NEKHORVICH 
                Yes, and you'll get us to a safe place 
                with them, thank god!..left to my own 
                devices, I'm an old fart too inept to read 
                a railroad timetable!..

     Good-natured laughter.  Cut off by a flight steward who passes 
     by, giving a sidelong silence in Ethan and Nekhorvich's direction. 
     Oxygen masks suddenly deploy from the ceiling.  Passengers are 
     puzzled and alarmed.

                                CAPTAIN'S VOICE
                You Captain again.  We've experienced a 
                slight but abrupt drop in cabin pressure..
                
     A passenger struggling with his mask.  As Nekhorvich fumbles with 
     the strap on his mask he notes that the display screen shows 
     their altitude is below 30,000 feet and dropping.  He checks the 
     countdown time on his watch again.  Nekhorvich looks around him.  
     The flight attendants are conspicuously absent and all the 
     passengers who have on oxygen masks are passed out.

     INT - COCKPIT

     The flight crew now wearing their oxygen masks.

                                CAPTAIN
                        (into radio)
                Pan, pan, pan, Denver Center.  This is 
                Trans Pac Flight two-two-zero-seven, 747 
                heavy.  We are not reading you.  We're 
                unable to maintain cabin pressurization.  
                We have initiated a descent to one six
                thousand.

     The Co-pilot is working on the plane's altitude when his hands 
     slip off the controls.  His eyes flutter, then:

                                CO-PILOT
                Captain, I don't..can't..

     He passes out.  The Captain, HUGH STAMP, turns to verify that the
     relief pilot is also unconscious at the controls.

     He then removes his oxygen mask, sets the auto pilot, inputting 
     numbers to slow the plane and descend.  As the craft titles 
     downward...

     INT - GALLERY

     The flight attendants are pulling on jump suits.  Stamp emerges
     from the cockpit.

     INT - CABIN

     Ethan returns.  Nekhorvich beckons to him.  Ethan sits.  Grinning 
     around, Nekhorvich conspiratorially:

                                NEKHORVICH
                ..it seems we have a problem, Dmitri.

                                ETHAN
                        (in the same tone)
                You keep calling me Dmitri.  You really 
                shouldn't.

     Nekhorvich's eyes narrow.

                                NEKHORVICH
                You're not Dmitri?

     With a lightning swift move Ethan breaks Nekhorvich's neck.

                                ETHAN
                - no.

     He grabs the satchel.

                                ETHAN (cont'd)
                        (to Wallis)
                Wallis, hold onto it.

     Wallis slashes the satchel handle open, takes the satchel for 
     Ambrose.  He peels off the latex mask, revealing SEAN AMBROSE.

                                ETHAN (cont'd)
                Ulrich, pull the -

     He tears off the vocal oscillator at his adam's apple, clears his 
     throat, now as Ambrose:

                                AMBROSE
                - pull the NO2 tank and dump it, it's potential evidence..

                                STAMP
                        (the 'captain' into shot)
                All done, chief..

                                AMBROSE
                        (what else)
                - right -
                        (kidding)
                - don't go too far ahead of me now -

                                STAMP
                Not possible..

     Ulrich has rolled back the carpet over an access panel just 
     beneath them that leads to the belly of the plane.  Stamp pulls 
     back the panel, hops into the compartment below which is four 
     walls of electronic equipment.  Stamp kneels and slides back the 
     floor hatch.  The wind howls, puffs of cloud zip by beneath them.  
     As they descend into the belly:

                                WALLIS
                Checkpoint Charlie plus 30, altitude minus 
                two-zero-thousand.  Airspeed one-seven-
                niner knots..

                                AMBROSE
                It's that time.  Go.

     They don goggles and, with Ambrose in the lead, 
     the team leaps, one after another from the hatch, sailing off
     into the sky.

     INT - COCKPIT (DAY)						

     An automated voice repeats in an ominous monotone:

                                VOICE
                Terrain, terrain.  Pull up, pull up.

     The co-pilot stirs.  He blearily rouses himself just in time to 
     see:

     A mountain rushing toward him.  As mountain meets airplane, the 
     frame is filled with fire, but when camera pulls back from the 
     fireball, it is in fact no more than a match head filling frame, 
     which ignited, lights a fuse..

     The MI theme music kicks in, the main credits roll to:

     EXT - FACE OF MOUNTAIN (DAY)

     For a moment it might be thought part of the same range when the 
     plane crashed but when Ethan Hunt climbs into frame the angle 
     widen and titles down, revealing more of where he's come from 
     than where he's going.  Aside from the fact that he's in the 
     midst of free-climbing what is easily a sheer rock face of at 
     least a thousand feet, there's the sunny picture-postcard view of 
     a lovely valley and pellucid lake thousands of feet below.  Ethan 
     climbs out of shot.

     WIDE UP ANGLE (DAY)

     revealing the summit, a light breeze hitting the lichen and 
     whatever growth has a slender purchase on the rocky mountainside, 
     fluffy clouds overhead.

     Ethan into shot.  Despite the spectacularly precarious handholds 
     he's using to hang onto the mountain and his life, he appears 
     relaxed, engaged - for him - in the equivalent of busman's 
     holiday.  It's leisurely danger for Ethan; one might almost 
     expect to hear Julie Andrews trilling 'Climb Every Mountain' on 
     the soundtrack.

     Then a rock he's been grasping crumbles and Ethan drops about six 
     inches before he grabs onto the mountain again.  As he hangs by 
     five fingers thousands of feet above the earth he doesn't seem 
     terribly concerned until he spots a helicopter.

     It's materialized behind the summit and passes surprisingly close 
     just overhead, casting its shadow downward over Ethan.  
     Instinctively, Ethan flattens himself against the rock surface, 
     as if the copter poses some sort of threat to him.  But when 
     its rotors whir it into the distance Ethan relaxes and resumes his 
     climb.

     A HAIRY OVERHANG (EXT. MOUNTAIN - DAY)

     near the summit Ethan departing from the vertical and is now 
     traversing the mountain with more of his back than his feet 
     exposed to the earth far below.  He's clinging to the mountain 
     almost like a fly walking on the ceiling.  When he reaches for a 
     handhold that will restore him to the vertical, he dislodges a 
     lizard - and manages to catch it before it plunges thousand of 
     feet to oblivion.
                                
                                ETHAN
                Whoaa..

     He pockets the lizard, climbs the overhang.

     REVERSE ANGLE - SUMMIT

     with Ethan's hand, then Ethan coming into view and making the 
     summit.  He reaches into his pocket and releases the lizard who 
     favors Ethan with a stern reptilian stare by way of gratitude.  To 
     lizard:

                                ETHAN
                You're welcome.

     The lizard scampers off, then a low beeping sound at his back 
     attracts his attention.  He turns to see the source of the 
     beeping, a small package in day-glo colors with a day-glo 
     streamer.  Ethan looks to the sky where the helicopter is now 
     ominously circling back.

     Ethan lifts the day-glo package and waves it in the direction of 
     the copter.  With a distinct lack of enthusiasm.

     The helicopter once again turns, banks and disappears.  Ethan has 
     opened the beeping package and finds a pair of sunglasses.

     ETHAN'S POV SUNGLASSES

     First, a retinal scan.

                                ELECTRONIC VOICE
                Identity confirmed.

                                SWANBECK
                Good morning, Mr. Hunt.

     Swanbeck's face flashes onscreen.  Over his introduction of Nyah 
     is a series of satellite photographs whose subject is so elusive 
     she never seems to give the camera a clean shot.

                                SWANBECK'S VOICE
                Your mission, should you choose to accept 
                it, requires you to recover a stolen item, 
                designated Chimera.  Essential to the 
                mission is the recruitment of a civilian -- 
                a Miss Nyah Nordoff-Hall.  She is a highly 
                capable professional thief currently 
                active in Spain.

     A series of Nyah's 'accomplishments', i.e., warrants, complaints, 
     Interpol summaries of her various criminal activities, as well as 
     glimpses of the elusive Nyah circulating about Seville.

                                SWANBECK'S VOICE (cont'd)
                Her dossier's available on I-COM 3.  You 
                have 48 hours to recruit Ms. Nordoff-Hall 
                and meet me in Seville to receive further 
                details.  Should you or any member of your 
                IM force be caught or killed, the 
                Secretary will disavow all knowledge of 
                your actions.

     Swanbeck's face reappears on screen:

                                SWANBECK'S VOICE (cont'd)
                And Mr. Hunt - the next time you go on 
                vacation, please be good enough to let us 
                know where you're going.  This message will 
                self-destruct in five seconds.

     Ethan removes the glasses, then tosses them into space.

                                ETHAN
                If I let you know where I'm going -

     The glasses explode in a puff of smoke.

                                ETHAN (cont'd)
                - won't be on holiday.

     Ethan, with a fair amount of disgust, gets to his feet and jumps 
     off the mountain, in, what for a moment looks like a suicidal 
     snit.  Then, somewhere hundreds of feet below camera, there's a 
     little puff of color as the tulip-shaped chute pops out of his 
     back-pack.  Begin the sound of a castanets and the animal-like cries 
     of flamenco dancers.

                                                        DISSOLVE TO:

     EXT - ANDALUSIAN VILLA (EVE)

     Bustling in the activity of a large private party, with arriving 
     guests and attentive valets, as a young woman, her face unseen, 
     exits her car and enters the villa.

     A FLASH OF SKIRT AND LACE (INT-EXT. VILLA - FLAMENCO DANCERS - EVE)

     where to the cries of dancers add graceful feminine hands 
     wielding the castanets.  The dancers perform on a raised platform 
     and NYAH NORDOFF-HALL'S face can be glimpsed thru the swirling 
     skirts and pounding heels, looking thru, not at them.

     REVERSE ANGLE - ETHAN

     looking back in a similar way to Nyah; surreal lighting and the 
     relentless chorus of pounding heels seem to isolate them in the 
     crowed party.  Nyah continues to look at Ethan over the shoulder 
     over her wanna-be escort, a very attentive gentleman.  Nyah 
     offers up her empty glass, and the gentleman eagerly takes it to 
     the bar for a refill, leaving Nyah and Ethan looking at one 
     another.  Ethan approaches her.

                                ETHAN
                Do you know me?

                                NYAH
                No.  Should I?

                                ETHAN
                No.  You just looked as if you did.

                                NYAH
                No.  Just as if I'd like to.

                                ETHAN
                Oh.  Well.  I think that can be arranged.

                                NYAH
                Not tonight.  Bad timing.  Sorry -

                                ETHAN
                There's not enough time in the world for 
                any of it to be bad.

     This stops her.  Nyah moves closer to him, until they're nose 
     to nose.  Whispered but breezy:

                                NYAH
                Look, it's either you or the rent and I 
                don't mind telling you it's not an easy 
                choice.

                                ETHAN
                What if I pay the rent?

                                NYAH
                Uh-huh.

                                ETHAN
                Uh-huh?

     Glancing at the gentleman making his way back with her drink 
     then:

                                NYAH
                Go find the wealthy lady you came with and 
                next time we meet - I'll pay your rent. 
                        (kissing him, sweetly)
                Now bugger off.

     And purposeful creature that she is, she takes her frustrated 
     desire upstairs, timing her footsteps so as to use the sound of 
     the dancer's steps to cover her own.  Once upstairs, a security 
     guard near the master bedroom can be seen eagerly following her
     down the hall, both moving past a pair of windows, visible to 
     Ethan.  In a few moments, Nyah can be seen past the 
     windows in the opposite direction, without the guard following.  
     In another moment or two, a very puzzled looking security guard 
     can be glimpsed in the first window, looking up and down the 
     hall, clearly having lost sight of Nyah.  Ethan smiles, moves out 
     of shot.

     INT - MASTER BEDROOM (EVE)

     Nyah has opened the door and moves swiftly thru the bedroom.

     INT - BATH (EVE)

     A decadent looking affair with suggestive lighting, mirrored 
     walls.  The tub has a tray across it which includes a wine cooler         
     chilling a bottle of Crystal and a mound of caviar on a bed of 
     ice.  Nyah can't resist.  She spoons a dollop of the caviar and 
     downs it before she moves along the frescoed walls of the tub to 
     its back.  There, she pulls out her compact and removes the puff, 
     revealing an electronic density meter.  She turns it on and holds 
     it at the rear of the tub.  Its sweep gauge jumps sharply from 
     green thru yellow and into red.

                                NYAH
                        (her fondest hopes confirmed)
                Mmmm.

     She now steps into the tub and focuses on the grout between the 
     tiles just above the sop dish.  Her knee eyes search for any 
     cracks in the grout and she spots one.  Using a tweezers she 
     pulls the silver of the grout out from between the tiles, revealing 
     something that looks like a credit card wedged between the tiles.  
     She slips the card into a narrow opening under the sop dish.

     There's the sound of hydraulics and two arms move the marble 
     casing out from the rear of the tub.  Nyah breathes a sigh of 
     relief and anticipation: kneeling in the tub she finds herself 
     looking down at an open safe, revealing some half-dozen locked 
     compartments.  As she studies them:

                                ETHAN
                Decisions, decisions.

     Nyah looks up to see Ethan's reflection in the bathroom 
     mirrors, looking down at her kneeling in the tub.

                                NYAH
                What are you doing here?

                                ETHAN
                Think you're the only one who can pick a 
                lock?

                                NYAH
                        (not altogether pleased)
                I see.  You're not just another pretty face..

     Before Ethan can answer, a voice can be heard coming from the 
     bedroom warbling Granada in Spanish, and with considerable gusto.

                                NYAH (cont'd)
                Oh god.  A bloody baritone.

     Nyah catches a reflection behind Ethan's in the bathroom mirror.  
     She reaches up and grabs Ethan by the lapel, yanking him into the 
     tub, pulling him down on top of her.  Once again they're nose to 
     nose.
                                
                                ETHAN
                I take it you prefer tenors.

     She glances up at the mirror.  In it is the reflection of SENOR 
     AUGUSTO DE L'ARENA, a big amiable Castilian in his fifties who's 
     changing a white dinner jacket that's had wine split on it.  He 
     breaks into a heavily accented version of 'Now or Never', and 
     disappears from the dressing room mirror.

                                NYAH
                Would you mind if I'm on top?

                                ETHAN
                Oh, either way works for me.

     With a jaundiced look she rolls over on top of Ethan and begins 
     working on one of the safe compartments, using a tiny torque 
     wrench from a tube of lipstick and a carbide pick from a mascara 
     brush.  She glances down and is rather disconcerted.  Continues 
     working with the pick and wrench.

                                ETHAN'S VOICE
                You're never gonna find it there.

                                NYAH
                        (she jumps, dropping the torque wrench)
                Damn it!  Find what?

                                ETHAN
                His ex-wife's Bulgari necklace that goes 
                up for auction Tuesday.

     Looking down to Ethan, a touch of indignation:

     LOOKING UP

     more or less, hands locked behind his neck as he rests against 
     the raked back of the tub, his eyes and nose inches from Nyah's 
     lower pelvic region as she straddles him.  Not exactly in the mood 
     to move:

     She stiffens - he knows too damn much.

                                NYAH
                - right..where is it?

                                ETHAN
                Far right. 

     She immediately switches her efforts from top left to the
     bottom right compartment.  She's utterly nonplussed:

                                NYAH
                Where's the bloody -

                                ETHAN
                        (plucking it off his chest,
                        offering it up like a mechanic
                        under the chassis)
                - torque wrench.

                                NYAH
                - this is very disconerting..

                                ETHAN
                Hey, you put me here.  I just do what I'm
                told.

                                NYAH
                - right..

     She unstraddles him and, with a few deft moves with the torque
     wrench and carbide pick - and it's open.  She withdraws a velvet
     pouch and opens the pouch.  Out spills the spectacular necklace.

                                NYAH (cont'd)
                Lovely.
                        (starting to close the safe)
                Who are you and what's it going to cost me?

                                ETHAN
                        (having sat up)
                I wouldn't do that.

                                NYAH
                Do what?

     The alarm goes off.

                                ETHAN
                That.

     The bathroom is suddenly filled with security guards, gun drawn
     Senor de l'Arena, looking highly upset, pops in.

                                SENOR DE L'ARENA
                Oh, Senor Keyes, thank God it is you!
                        (in Spanish to security guards,
                        annoyed)
                It's Senor Keyes, the security engineer.

                                ETHAN
                Well, Senor de l'Arena the goods news is
                that the heat sensors were activated.   But
                Miss Nordoff-Hall, my associate -

     Senor de l'Arena kisses Nyah's hand.

                                SENOR DE L'ARENA
                Mucho gusto, senorita.

                                ETHAN
                - did feel that she had rather too long to
                work on the safe before they triggered the
                alarm, isn't that right Miss Hall?

                                NYAH
                Oh yes.  Absolutely.  Much too long I
                should yes.

     Nyah's initial shock and panic slowly gives way to a wary,
     intensified curiosity - about Ethan.

                                ETHAN
                Under the circumstances I think we would
                recommend re-setting the senors to
                respond to a lighter load.  How do you
                feel about forty kilos, Miss Hall?

                                NYAH
                Indeed.

                                ETHAN
                Well, Senor de l'Arena, there's no reason 
                to disrupt your party any longer.  we have
                some further concerns about the disposition
                of your security guards, which you'll
                receive in our written report by fax in the
                morning, hard copy to follow.  Shall we?

     He offers Nyah his arm.  They start out.  Ethan immediately stops.

                                ETHAN (cont'd)
                Miss Hall. Haven't you forgotten
                something?

     Nyah looking genuinely puzzled.

                                NYAH
                The necklace?

     Nyah slowly reaches into her dress and withdraws the glittering
     string of diamonds and rubies from her bust.

                                SENOR DE L'ARENA
                        (a great kidder)
                What are you trying to do, senorita?  Rob
                me.

     They all laugh, and Ethan's got her out the door.

     EXT - ANDALUSIAN VILLA (LATE NIGHT - PRE DAWN)

     The stars dimming, the sky a gun metal blue.  Ethan and Nyah
     emerge from the villa, walking slowly.  Nyah's clearly
     preoccupied.

                                NYAH
                I'm missing something here, aside from a
                500,000 pound necklace.  Even after I
                botched the job, I could've walked out of 
                there with the bloody thing.

                                ETHAN
                At least you walked.

                                NYAH
                If you weren't going to let me get away
                with it, why did you let me go thru with
                it?

                                ETHAN
                Wanted to see how good you were.
                I'm hoping we might work together.

                                NYAH
                May I say something, no offence?  You
                look like a gigolo, you sound like a 
                thief, you act like a cop - what the
                bloody hell do you have in mind?

                                ETHAN
                Working under adverse conditions.  Highly
                adverse conditions.

                                NYAH
                Sounds smashing.  I'm in.  Muchacho, mi
                carro, por favor!  Now be serious.  You
                couldn't possibly want me off tonight's
                performance..

                                ETHAN
                You didn't do that badly.

     Her car arrives.

                                NYAH
                        (as she moves to her car)
                You're apologizing for me?  Quite the
                gentleman..

                                ETHAN
                        (opening the car door)
                Not really.  I triggered the alarm..

     One foot on the floorboard she freezes, back to Ethan.

                                ETHAN
                Hey, the Bulgari job last week was
                flawless.  And I've always been partial to
                pale yellows.

     She slides behind the wheel.

                                NYAH
                        (as he leads on the car)
                I don't do laundry, or put up with
                cheeky bastards who set me up on their
                territory so they can poach on mine.

     She takes off, spewing bits of gravel and dust in her wake.
     Ethan smiles and shakes his head.

     ON THE ROAD - NYAH (MOVING)

     around curves, hair flying, she's free.  Her car phone rings.
     Perplexed, she lets it ring once or twice picks it up:

                                NYAH
                        (tentatively)
                Hola..

                                ETHAN
                Hi.  Would you mind slowing down?

                                NYAH
                Where did you get this number?  I don't
                even have it!

                                ETHAN' VOICE
                Would you like it?

     She hits the End button and disconnects.  The phone immediately
     rings again.  She refuses to pick up.  Ethan pulls alongside hers.
     She looks at him.  They speak through the open cars.

                                ETHAN
                Pull over and listen to me, will you?
                Just listen..

                                NYAH
                Listen to what?

                                ETHAN
                I need your help and I thin you can use
                mine.

                                NYAH
                Your help?  What are you talking about?

                                ETHAN
                Scotland Yard, Interpol, every Dutch
                authority.  I can make them go away.

                                NYAH
                Oh bloody hell.  You're a spy.

     She floors it and shoots ahead of Ethan, nicking his car as she takes off.

                                ETHAN
                        (to himself)
                I deserved that.

     SERIES OF DRIVING SHOTS - NYAH AND ETHAN

     Ethan rings her again.  And keeps ringing.  Her face becomes
     grim, her flight progressively more desperate and with Ethan's
     pursuit progressively more determined.  They are reaching the
     limits of adhesion around blind curves.

     MORE SHOTS DRIVING (DAWN)

     The sky's battleship gray; Ethan pursues Nyah around hairpin
     turns high above the Costa del Sol; they rip thru patches of
     marine fog drifting on the road, obscuring it.

     Both are appalled by the other's willingness to escalate risk in
     this game of flight and pursuit until Ethan tears thru a fogbank
     and sees on his GPS what Nyah can't see thru the fog - 
     less than four hundred meters ahead is a turn she can't possibly
     negotiate and if she can't she'll plunge off the road hundreds of
     feet to rock and sea below.  Ringing her number again:

                                ETHAN
                        (half to himself)
                Slow down, slow down.

     She turns up a mound and loses control.  She spins out and heads
     toward the edge of the cliff.

                                NYAH
                        (realizing she's in trouble)
                Uh-oh.

     Ethan cuts her off and sends them both into a 540 degree spin.
     Her car stops just at the cliff's edge.

     Furious she wrenches open the car door and gets out.

                                ETHAN
                No!

     Suddenly there's no Nyah.  Ethan leaps over to Nyah's car and
     sees Nyah dangling over the ocean and rocks hundreds of feet
     below, holding the door handle.

                                NYAH
                Oh..oh..

     Taking a firm grip on her wrist.

                                ETHAN
                Don't look down.  Just..look at me.
                That's it..that's it..

     He pulls Nyah up to the car, across the seat and half into
     his arms.  For a long moment it looks like she's in shock.  Then:
        
                                NYAH
                What's you name?

                                ETHAN
                Ethan Hunt.

                                NYAH
                Well, Ethan Hunt, what is it you want to
                talk to me about?

     Thru the veil of morning fog, Nyah looks at Ethan.  Her dark eyes
     suggest wit, and willingness, and longing.

                                ETHAN
                ...more than I thought..
                
     They scarcely to move to bring their lips together:

                                NYAH
                Awfully short notice..

                                ETHAN
                Care to wait a decent interval?

                                NYAH
                Who wants to be decent?..

     DISSOLVE:

     CLOSE - ETHAN (INT-EXT. SAFEHOUSE - SEVILLE - DAY-EVE)

     sleeping.  His eyes open slowly.  He comes to full consciousness,
     his head still on the pillow.  Something approaching serious
     anxiety informs his features.  He lifts his head and looks at his
     left, angle widening.  Nyah lies on her side facing him,        
     sleeping serenely.  Anxiety on the order of oh-God-this-isn't-
     approved-recruiting-technique, confirmed.  He lets his head flop
     back on the pillow.  Then he turns so he and Nyah are profile to-
     profile.  As he looks at her sleeping his anxiety fades, replaced
     by curiosity and even wonder.  He lifts his hand and just
     brushes her cheek.  Her eyes open.  She knows where she is.

                                ETHAN
                So what've you got against spooks?

     Nyah smiles.

                                NYAH
                When they've got your recruiting
                technique?  Not a thing.

                                ETHAN
                Oh.  Well..this isn't exactly by the book.

                                NYAH
                They've got a book for this?

                                ETHAN
                They've got a book for everything.

                                NYAH
                The only other spook I knew was a liar.
                Charming but absolutely incapable of
                telling the truth.  He'd lie about his
                favorite color.  But then I reckon it's an
                occupational hazard.  All spies really do
                is conceal the truth and tell lies.

                                ETHAN
                Not revealing information doesn't
                necessarily make someone a liar.

                                NYAH
                That's not the point.  In the end what
                spies rely on is the one thing they think
                they know that you don't.

                                ETHAN
                Which is?

                                NYAH
                That they're lying.

     Ethan laughs.

                                NYAH (cont'd)
                ..once they know that they can
                get very very..crosee..

     Nyah shoulder and moves into Ethan.

                                ETHAN
                So where did I got right?

                                NYAH
                You're not a liar.  Or you're an awfully
                good one..
                        (then)
                ..this thing these blokes pinched..

                                ETHAN
                I don't know that they 'pinched' it.
                Don't even know that they're blokes.

     Nyah stops to think about this.

                                NYAH
                Well, then, what I am I doing here?  I assume
                I'm meant to be some sort of thief-to
                catch-a-thief..

                                ETHAN
                So do I.  Sort of.

     Nyah looks at Ethan, a little worried.

                                NYAH
                Spoken like a spook..you ever afraid?

                                ETHAN
                Of what?

     Nyah laughs.

                                NYAH
                Ask a question, you get an answer!..

                                ETHAN
                Damn, you're beautiful.

                                NYAH
                That's because I'm on my back.

     Quick as a cat Ethan flips Nyah over so she's looking down
     at him.

                                ETHAN
                I don't think so.

     She sinks into his arms.

     EXT-INT - STREET - SEVILLE (VALENCIA FESTIVAL) (EVE)

     Ethan's step is unusually jaunty as he bounces along, making his
     way thru the festive and jostling crowds preparing for the Crema
     portion of the Fallas de Valencia.  On this night great papier
     mache effigies, some serious, some comic, are placed all thru the
     city and torched in great bonfires.  Outside the bar Ethan's
     looking for there's a street vendor, hawking Fallas mementos and
     flowers.  He starts past the vendor, and it hits him - he's going 
     to buy some flowers.

     He chooses a colorful spring bouquet so fresh the dew can be
     seen on the petals.  Ethan pays the vendor, starts into the bar,
     and thinks better of walking into Swanbeck with the bouquet.
     Turns back to the vendor.

                                ETHAN
                Are you gonna be here a while?

                                VENDOR
                Si, senor.

                                ETHAN
                I'll pick'em up on my way out, okay?

     Ethan enter the bar and goes upstairs to the second floor where
     he passes security at a pair of double doors.

     INT - IMF BRIEFING ROOM

     Swanbeck stands looking out the window.  Noisy crowds from the
     festival provides a constant walla, and during the sequence, the
     first effigies are lit, and smoke and flame provide a vivid
     background thru briefing room's window.

                                SWANBECK
                Fetival's a pain in the ass.  Honoring
                saint by setting'em on fire.
                        (turning to Ethan)
                Sit down, sit down.

     Ethan sits.

                                SWANBECK (cont'd)
                Let's you know what they think of saints,
                doesn't it?  Damn near set me on fire on
                my way over here.  As if I haven't been
                burned enough today.

     A moment where it's impossible to tell which way the wind is
     going to blow between these two.  Then civilly:

                                SWANBECK (cont'd)
                Sorry I barged in on your vacation.

                                ETHAN
                Sorry I didn't let you know where I was.

                                SWANBECK
                Don't be.  Wouldn't be on vacation if you did.

                                ETHAN
                Well.  You're sorry and I'm sorry.

                                SWANBECK
                Why did you phrase it like that?

                                ETHAN
                Like what?

                                SWANBECK
                'You're sorry and I'm sorry.'

                                ETHAN
                You gotta be kidding.

     Swanbeck turns to his computer and begins play on a DVD, and
     projected onto a computer screen staring back at Ethan is:

     VLADIMIR NEKHORVICH

                                NEKHORVICH
                        (with exaggerate brio)
                Well, Dmitri!  How are you?..

     Nekhorvich pauses as if waiting for reply.  Ethan smiles.

                                ETHAN
                ..I'm fine..and you?

                                NEKHORVICH
                I'm fine..

     Ethan laughs.

                                ETHAN
                I'm fine and you're fine..

     With Ethan simultaneously whispering:

                                NEKHORVICH
                I'm fine too.. I'm fine and you're fine - do
                you remember, dear fried, how you got
                Sergei and I to repeat those lines from Dr.
                Strangelove and we gave you the name of that 
                silly Soviet Premier because we didn't know
                your name?..In those days, you not only
                saved our lives, you saved our sanity.  'Now,
                then Dmitri - we have this little problem':
                Every search for a hero must begin with
                something that every hero requires; a 
                villain.  Therefore, in a search for our
                hero, Bellerophon, we created a monster
                Chimera.  I beg you, Dmitri, come to Sydney
                and accompany me to Atlanta immediately.
                However we travel, I must arrive at me
                destination, within 20 hours of departure.
                Forgive this fanciful explanation, but for
                now prudence dictates that I communicate
                nothing but the gravest urgency.
                I fear I can entrust this to no one but
                you, Dmitri.  as we say, 'I'm sorry and
                you're sorry'..

     Swanbeck stops the DVD.

                                SWANBECK
                Let me ask you something.  You have any
                idea what the hell he's talking about?

     Ethan smiles.

                                ETHAN
                An idea, yeah.

                                SWANBECK
                Like?

                                ETHAN
                Like it's a good idea to pick him up in a
                hurry.  And a bad idea to fly him on a
                commercial carrier.  So let's get on with
                it.  He's still in Sydney?

                                SWANBECK
                Dr. Vladimir Nekhorvich is dead.  So is his
                colleague, Gradski, but that happened
                earlier.  We had Nekhorvich on a flight
                from Sydney that crashed in the Rockies..

     Ethan sits back, heavily.

                                SWANBECK (cont'd)
                - Hunt, are you listening?..

     Slowly looking up:

                                ETHAN
                If he didn't want to go anywhere without
                me, how did you get him on the flight?

                                SWANBECK
                You were there.

     Swanbeck clears his throat.  He turns back to the computer and 
     punches in: MISSION DOUBLE IMAGE.  File open to computer scans
     of AMBROSE, SEAN, and HUNT, ETHAN, the computer scanning and
     comparing their features, millimeter by millimeter, stat by stat,
     as the computer then imposes, with the help of the physiognomy
     scan, Ethan's face on Ambrose: hence, mission double image.

     ETHAN

     slowly looks up at Swanbeck.

                                SWANBECK
                When I couldn't find you, I had to replace
                you.  Sean Ambrose was the obvious choice.
                He double you, what?  Two, three times?

                                ETHAN
                Twice.

                                SWANBECK
                What did you think of him?

                                ETHAN 
                You know we had reservations about each
                other.  Isn't it a little late in the day
                to be asking me that?

                                SWANBECK
                Not necessarily.

     Swanbeck shows Ethan a photo of airline Captain.

                                SWANBECK
                Airline record list Captain Harold
                Macintosh as the pilot for Flt 2207.  as
                far as the media and all governmental
                agencies are concerned, Captain Macintosh
                died on the flight, but in fact he missed
                it.  He did, however make the next flight -
                in cargo, stuffed into a rather small 
                suitcase considering his size.

     Another photo of an open suitcase, the body in it partially
     obscured by a ring of police and customs officers.

                                SWANBECK (cont'd)
                Someone on that flight planned an
                operation designed to down the plane and
                make it look like an accident.  Someone
                skillful enough to bring the whole thing
                off without a hitch but - they don't
                always get your luggage on the plane, even
                when you fly first class.

                                ETHAN
                So there's one thing we know Ambrose
                doesn't.

                                SWANBECK
                Then you do think it was Ambrose.

     Ethan barely nods.

                                SWANBECK (cont'd)
                And you're not surprised.

     Ethan gives Swanbeck a look.

                                ETHAN
                Whatever Nekhorvich was carrying Sean
                wanted and he wanted to conceal the fact
                that he took it.

                                SWANBECK
                Enough to kill Nekhorvich and two hundred
                innocent passengers?

     Ethan smiles.

                                ETHAN
                Sean feels he hasn't done the job unless
                he leaves a lot of hats on the ground.

                                SWANBECK
                The question is why?  What was this
                Chimera Nekhorvich was carrying?

     Ethan rises and moves to the window.

                                ETHAN
                Right now only Ambrose knows that.

                                SWANBECK
                In any case, you've got to recover Chimera
                and bring it to us.

                                ETHAN
                In order to do that, I've got to figure
                out how he plans to make money with it.

                                SWANBECK
                - right.  In fact since the plane went
                down our banking sources have confirmed a
                marked increase in the stock pilling of
                cash in terrorists accounts.

                                ETHAN
                'Terrorists?'

                                SWANBECK
                Well you know Nekhorvich's history.
                You're the one who got him out of the
                Soviet Union was it still in bio-
                weapon business.

                                ETHAN
                If that's what you're thinking Ambrose
                would have set up a bidding situation with
                any number of buyers before he got on the
                plane.  Locating him in time to stop
                something like that - 

                                SWANBECK
                - is where Miss Hall comes in.

                                ETHAN
                        (blindsided)
                Excuse me?

                                SWANBECK
                Miss Hall and Ambrose had a relationship
                which he took very seriously.  She walked
                away and he's wanting her back ever
                since.  We believe she's our surest and 
                quickest way of location him.

                                ETHAN
                        (acidly)
                And then what?

                                SWANBECK
                Then makes sure she continues to see him.
                Gets him confide in her and report to
                you.

                                ETHAN
                You made it sound as if I was recruiting
                her for her skills as a thief.

                                SWANBECK
                Well, then I mislead you.  Or you made the 
                wrong assumption.  Either way we're asking
                her to resume a prior relationship, not do 
                anything she hasn't already done.

                                ETHAN
                She's got no training for this kind of
                thing.

                                SWANBECK
                Go to bed with a man and lie to him?
                She's a woman.  She's got all the training
                she needs.

     Ethan's anger flashes but does his best to contain it.

                                ETHAN
                I don't think I can get her to do it.

                                SWANBECK
                You mean it'll be difficult.

                                ETHAN
                Very.

                                SWANBECK
                Well it's not mission difficult, Hunt.
                It's mission impossible.  Difficult should
                be a walk in the park for you.  If you can
                think of a quicker way to get to Ambrose,
                you're welcome to try.  Oh, by the way, you
                might want to take a look at these..if you
                have any further qualms about getting her
                to do the job.

     He pulls out a little Minolta digital camera (identical to the
     one in Nekhorvich's bag at airport security).  Swanbeck sets it on
     the table.  Ethan picks it up the tiny camera and puts it to his eye.

     EXT - BAR (NIGHT)

     A grim Ethan, starring fixedly ahead of him emerges to an ever
     more lively crowd.  as he does:

                                STREET VENDOR
                Senor, senor!  Your flowers.

     The vendor holds up the spring bouquet.  Ethan seems genuinely
     surprised by them.

                                ETHAN
                Yes.  They're very nice..

     And he's lost in the crowd, leaving a very puzzled vendor holding
     the bouquet.

     STILL OF CRASH SITE IN ROCKIES (THRU MINOLTA STILL CAMERA)

     One after the other flashing by.  They are more evocative than
     specific in their suggestion of an abrupt, fiery, ending, where
     the lives of hundred are literally and figuratively torn apart
     and strewn over a desolate landscape.

     NYAH

     carefully places the little Minolta on a glass-topped coffee
     table.  She's beautifully pulled together, the safehouse has the
     lights low, flamenco music playing, and when she walks out onto
     the balcony Ethan sees the candlelit table and a bottle of
     champagne chilling.  There's a light breeze the fire from the
     burning effigies throwing smoke and flame all over the city.

                                NYAH
                What's the population of Seville any
                idea?

                                ETHAN
                Five, six-hundred thousand.

                                NYAH
                There's nearly 2 million in London.

                                ETHAN
                And six billion in the world.

                                NYAH
                That's lot of people out there..how many
                of them, I wonder, are capable of
                something like that?

                                ETHAN
                Sean Ambrose, for one.

     A long shocked moment.  Nyah laughs.

                                NYAH
                Right...

     INT - SAFEHOUSE (EVE - LATER)

     The pounding beat of the flamenco music seems to fill the room
     Nyah's back to Ethan:

                                NYAH
                        (grimly amused)
                Not that it matter much but..I seem to
                recall you staying something like, 'I was
                hoping we could work together.'

                                ETHAN
                This wasn't what I had in mind, Nyah.

                                NYAH
                But it is what you'd like me to do.
                so tell me to do it..

     She approaches Ethan.  They're inches apart.

                                NYAH (cont'd)
                Come on, out with it.  Tell me to go and
                insinuate myself back into Sean's life.

                                ETHAN
                Go and insinuate yourself back into Sean's
                life.

                                NYAH
                I'd like a little more conviction..

                                ETHAN
                So would I.  But it's not mine to give.

                                NYAH
                        (archness there)
                You've either got it or you don't.  Let
                your conscience be your guide?

                                ETHAN
                Something like that.

     With a smile and a wink.

                                NYAH
                But I don't have a conscience.  I'm a
                bloody thief.

                                ETHAN
                You can be a thief and have a conscience.

                                NYAH
                No.  You can be a thief and have a
                conscience:  Not me.  Why did you have to
                tell me about this!
                        (pouring herself a drink)
                What do I have to do to get away from this
                guy?  When you're with him, he messes
                about with your head every waking
                moment..even now I'll be at some out-of-
                the-way-place, a tin of caviar and a 
                bottle of Crystal shows up at the table,
                with two glass, God knows how he finds 
                out at any given moment where I am in the
                world but he does.  And it looks like he's
                done it again.  You know his definition of
                a  true paranoid?

                                ETHAN
                I don't.

                                NYAH
                Someone in possession of all the facts.
                        (she turns away, pauses)
                Are you telling me I have to do this?

                                ETHAN
                Generally, I don't favor coercing someone.
                Not when there's a chance my life could
                end up in their hands.

                                NYAH
                And that's the only reason?

                                ETHAN
                Can you think of a better one?

                                NYAH
                Not me.  I was just hoping you might..or
                that..somehow in the course of business
                this got personal as well as physical.

                                ETHAN
                Look, would it make you feel better if I
                didn't want you to do this?

                                NYAH
                Much.

                                ETHAN
                Then feel better!..

     Long moment while she looks at him.

                                ETHAN (cont'd)
                Well.  That made all the difference in the 
                world, didn't it?

     Ethan walks out onto the balcony.  She looks at his back.

                                NYAH
                Sean will never be anything but suspicious
                if he picks up some sort of 'yoo-hoo-I'm-
                not-nad' message.  Not after the way we
                broke up.

                                ETHAN
                What wouldn't make him suspicious?

                                NYAH
                Probably that I needed him in some urgent
                way..destitute - in serious trouble..the
                kind I couldn't possible sort out myself..

     Ethan's been smiling slightly.

                                ETHAN
                Serious trouble, Nyah, is something I can
                always arrange..

     NYAH IN A SPANISH JAIL

     standing for front and side mug shot.  O.S. sound of teletype
     continues.  SUPERIMPOSE:  Ethan holding up something the size of
     a dime:
                                
                                ETHAN
                This little chip sends a coded signal that
                can be picked up only by our computer.

     On the screen of the GPS computer, a little yellow blip appears
     pulsating on the screen.

                                ETHAN'S VOICE
                When it's in your ankle we can track you
                within three feet of anywhere in the 
                world.

     OVER ETHAN AND ONTO COMPUTER SCREEN

     He types a small Interpol bulletin stating that Nyah Nordoff
     Hall, apprehended March 13 in Seville, is awaiting extradition
     while the authorities in London, Paris, and Amsterdam squabble
     over where she's going to be tried first, for the various thefts
     and burglaries she's committed in the three cities.

     COMPUTER SCREEN (AMBROSE TENT ANNEX - DAY)

     Ambrose picking up on a version of the Interpol bulletin Ethan's
     put out.  He leans over the screen for a moment, then moves to
     the window, and stares out thoughtful at the bay, almost as if
     he were watching...

     EXT - NYAH IN JAIL COURTYARD

     From a beautiful blue sky,  pan down to the courtyard of the jail
     where Nyah is allowed out for an airing, seemingly alone but 
     being watched by:

     ETHAN AND COMPUTER SCREEN
        
     His attention fixed on the screen, Ethan stares at satellite
     shot of Nyah in the jail courtyard.

     INT - PRISON - NYAH

     being allowed a phone call, a prison guard visible b.g.  Cross
     cut with Ethan.

                                ETHAN
                Look, I can't run your arrest in CNN, but
                I guarantee he's monitoring every law 
                enforcement agency in the world, for what
                they might be saying about him, if nothing
                else - he's got the ability and, we
                assume, the desire to get you out of
                there.

                                NYAH
                This doesn't seem to be accomplishing
                much.

                                ETHAN
                Well, I mean it's not a total loss.  It is
                keeping a very capable thief off the
                street..

                                NYAH
                Very funny..maybe he has heard and
                doesn't want to know.  Maybe he's lost
                interest.

     Her guard, b.g. is handed a note.

                                GUARD
                        (to Nyah)
                Your lawyer to see you.

                                NYAH
                What lawyer?

     ETHAN AND COMPUTER SCREEN

                                ETHAN
                Well, here we go.

     SECTOR: AUSTRALIA, moving into NEW SOUTH WALES, and then to:
     Sydney.  Here Ethan pulls up names, photos and profiles of 
     potential candidates.  They scroll past, one face morphing into
     another.  Ethan punches in on WILLIAM A. BAIRD.  EXPERTISE:
     Qualified in virtually every mode of transport, land, sea, air.
     ORDINANCES: Small arms and automatic weapons authority, edged and
     impact weapons.  PROCUREMENT: Resourceful.  EXPLOSIVES: Precision
     detonation, diffusion.

     Ethan punches: Request immediate availability.

     EXT - GOVERNMENT BUILDING - SEVILLE (DAY)

     Nyah emerges from the entrance to the jail.

                                ETHAN
                Stop and look for something in you
                purse..kneel down..

     She does.  They're effectively blocked from the street.

                                NYAH
                Limo's waiting.

     Ethan hands her a key chain with what appear to be a car-key.

                                ETHAN
                - Ambrose will have counter-surveillance
                second to no one's.  When and if he
                contacts you, push this button
                before you actually end up under his roof 
                it'll scramble your transmission to us.

     She takes the key chain.  Her hands are shaking.

                                NYAH
                When will you be there?

        
                                ETHAN
                Before you are.

                                NYAH
                How can you possibly?  I've got to get
                right on the plane.  I'm leaving now.

                                ETHAN
                You don't trust me.

                                NYAH
                Oh, I do.  But as we know I'm a very poor
                judge of character.

                                ETHAN
                He's got you on Qantas flight 2735.  It's
                going to be delayed.

                                NYAH
                Yes?

                                ETHAN
                You'll be fine.  I'm going to lose
                you.

                                NYAH
                Ethan, you take care of yourself, I'll
                take care of myself because if push comes
                to shove, I'm gonna bail - and without
                giving two week notice.

                                ETHAN
                Well, forewarned is forearmed.  And while
                we're at it, be especially sensitive to
                any sudden change in Ambrose's plans,
                especially any involving you..

     They rise.  A quick squeeze of her hand and he's gone.  A look of
     something like longing replaces the toughness as she gazes after
     him, then starts across the street toward the limo and driver.  MI
     music theme kicks in and continues over:

     POV HELICOPTER (MOVING - SYDNEY - DAY)

     over the Harbor Bridge, sails dotting the bay like confetti.

     EXT - FARM (DAY)

     pans of sheep are bleating and looking for sort of cover in
     response to the sound of a helicopter touching down.

     EXT - COPTER (DAY)

     Billy and Luther emerge, Luther with computer looking acutely
     uncomfortable in a wrinkled suit.

                                ETHAN'S VOICE
                Welcome to Australia, mate.

     They look up to a smiling Ethan who points to the ground beneath
     Luther's feet.  Luther looks down to see that he is standing in a
     pile of sheep-shit.

                                LUTHER
                Thanks - mate.

     Both men laugh and all three move to:

     INT - FARMHOUSE (DAY)

     Luther and Billy with Ethan setting up their operation.  There's
     a blip on one of the screens.

                                LUTHER
                It's the transponder.

                                ETHAN
                Put in the coordinates and let's get a 
                visual.  The visuals aren't coming up.

                                LUTHER
                The satellite doesn't work as fast as I
                do.

                                BILLY
                Yeah, I've heard about you, Luther, and I
                just want to tell you it's an honor and a
                pleasure to be working with you blokes,
                whoaa!  That's some transponder!

     As Billy speaks, the visual come on line and Nyah has become
     visible.

                                LUTHER
                        (a jaundiced eye, to Ethan)
                It certainly is.  How did we get so lucky?

     Ethan pointedly ignore the question.

     POV - MOVING (PALM BEACH - DAY)

     rounding the tip of the bay's crescent, revealing the beach and
     dock at Ambrose's palm-lined residence.

     NYAH

     The speedboat's engine's are cut.  Nyah looks momentarily
     stricken.

     POV NYAH (MOVING)

     a lone slender figure silhouetted at the end of the dock, still
     as the piling besides which it stands.  But the features remain
     obscured by the sun at his back.

     ETHAN

     leans forward as the slender figure grows larger,

                                BILLY 
                        (to Ethan)
                Is it him, then?

     POV - MOVING

     The tide is too low for the boat to dock, making it necessary for
     he boat to approach the shore.  The slender figure moves off the
     end of the dock and onto the beach.

     THE CIGARETTE

     idles into shadow water but the props start chewing into the
     sand - the boatman grumbles he can't get any closer.  The slender
     figure has moved to the shoreline and the angle of the light
     changes - Ambrose is waiting.

     Nyah hesitates only a flicker of an instant, slips over the side
     into thigh-high water without taking her eyes off Ambrose.
     Ambrose strides right on into the bay.  as they are just an arm's
     length apart:

     NYAH

     takes a deep breath, presses the button to scramble the
     transponder.

     WITH ETHAN (INT. SHEEPFARM SAFEHOUSE)

     The picture abruptly goes dead.

                                BILLY
                Damn.  Just when it was about to get
                interesting.

                                ETHAN
                It's okay.  She scrambled the
                transmission.  Luther, continue feeding
                the GPS her position.

     Luther punches in.  The signal - and the global coordinates are
     given.  They wait.

     INT - SPACE

     The satellite positions itself.

     WITH THE THREE
        
                                ETHAN
                Can't we speed this up.

     Luther shoots him a disgusted look.

                                LUTHER
                With what?  This is the only computer
                that'll do this.
       
     THE SIGNALS AND PHOTOS

     start to bounce back, growing larger and larger on the screen,
     until:  Nyah can be seen, water up to her thighs, lingering in
     Ambrose's arms with each blow-up, and linger.  And lingering.

                                BILLY
                - right.  Now there's a bloke who knows
                how to deliver a proper welcome.  Don't
                get me wrong, mate.  You were quite
                hospitable.  Is it him, then?

     Ethan's look suggests he's worried about lapse in recruiting
     judgment.

                                LUTHER
                It is, Billy.

                                BILLY
                Then we got'em!

                                ETHAN
                We don't know what we've got because we
                don't know what he's got, where he's got
                it or what he's doing in Sydney with it.

     Ethan strides away from the screen, the edge in his voice and the 
     move not altogether lost on either Luther or Billy.

     INT - THE BAY (EXT. PALM BEACH - DAY)

     Perfectly poised, still loosely in his arms, Nyah returns
     Ambrose's penetrating gaze with a pleasant, clear eyed one.

                                AMBROSE
                Not much luggage.

                                NYAH
                I left in a bit of a hurry.  I'm terribly
                grateful, Sean.

                                AMBROSE
                How grateful?

                                NYAH
                Well that depends.

                                AMBROSE
                On what.

                                NYAH
                How hard you had to work to get me out of
                there..how in the world did you ever find me?

                                AMBROSE
                        (stopping)
                How I usually find you, Nyah.

                                NYAH
                How do you that.

                                AMBROSE
                Magic...

                                NYAH
                Ahh..

     POV THRU TENT ANNEX WINDOW (AMBROSE COMPOUND)

     looking down the length of the dock.  Ambrose, his arm around
     Nyah and carrying her suitcase, moves up the dock toward the
     house and camera.

     Stamp steps into the annex and looks over to Wallis, who watches 
     Nyah on the monitors.

                                WALLIS
                No flies on her.
                        (checking her on a scanner
                        screen)
                No bugs either.  She's clean.

                                STAMP
                        (drily)
                All cats are.

     INT - ETHAN - SAFEHOUSE (SHEEP FARM - DAY)

     Ethan watches the Nekhorvich video on the computer screen.

                                NEKHORVICH
                ...therefore in a search for our hero,
                Bellerophon, we created a monster,
                Chimera.

     Ethan then flips through a series of pictures on the computer
     depicting the myth of Bellerophon attacking Chimera.

     Billy moves up behind him.

                                BILLY
                What you got there, mate?

                                ETHAN
                A myth..just a myth...shouldn't you be
                checking out their countersurveillance?

                                BILLY
                Well you know his blokes'll place the 
                OSCOR in his annex, where else if you're
                pinpointing transmitters, video signals,
                covert chip cameras, anything radiating,
                oscillating..

                                ETHAN
                ..or hard wired..

                                BILLY
                        (please)
                - or hard wired, right.  First line of 
                perimeter defence'll run from the back of
                the dock to the front of the house.
                Whatever moves burps or bleep is gonna be
                picked up to a height of twenty feet.
                Basically impenetrable, I'd say.

                                LUTHER
                Ethan, here's Nekhorvich, and here's his
                boss

     Luther scans an entry from the IMF database with newspaper
     clippings, sidebars of still of McCloy and Nekhorvich.

                                LUTHER (cont'd)
                McCloy, Jon Chaddick, CEO Biocyte
                Pharmaceuticals..D.O.B.  September 30,
                1952, Manchester, England.

                                BILLY 
                        (a little lost)
                Well do you disagree with that?

                                ETHAN
                Not at all.  But how about going into town
                and confirming your intuitions on site?

                                BILLY
                Oh well, if that's how you feel about it.

     Billy leaves.

                                LUTHER
                ..then Cambridge..Harvard..entrepreneurial
                efforts..in efforts..in 1989, acquired Biocyte in
                hostile takeover..

     As Luther transfer info to Ethan's computer:

                                LUTHER (cont'd)
                Ethan, have a look at this.

     On Ethan's screen appears the Biocyte website; where among he
     various icons one offer McCloy's proud detailing of Biocyte's
     philanthropic efforts:

                                MCCLOY'S VOICE
                We at out state-of-the-art solar powered
                Biocyte building recognized that eternal
                vigilance is the price of health.. whether
                it's funding the teaching center at the 
                Royal Prince Edward Hospital, removing
                aerosol products from the marker or
                braving the influenza quarantine at Bruny
                island late last month..at Biocyte your
                life..is our life's work..

                                ETHAN
                        (quietly)
                ..Biocyte workers at Bruny Island.

     INT - AMBROSE'S (DAY)

     They've reached the head of the stairs.  Ambrose opens a door.
     It's a large bedroom opening onto a veranda with a view of the
     tent annex and the beach, and a very large bed.

                                NYAH
                Your room.

                                AMBROSE
                        (yes)
                Mmmm.

                                NYAH
                And my room?

     A long moment.  Ambrose walks to a mirrored wall.  The mirrors
     are sliding doors.  With a sweeping gesture, he slides one of the
     mirrors back and reveals a wardrobe of beautiful designer
     clothes.

                                AMBROSE
                Thought you could use a little something
                to wear.

     Nyah stares at the spectacular wardrobe.  Ambrose pulls out a
     slinky Armani and drapes it on the bed.

                                AMBROSE ( cont'd)
                Try it on..

     Nyah hesitates.

                                AMBROSE (cont'd)
                Go ahead.  I'm dying to see if I 
                remembered your size..

     Nyah picks it up.

                                NYAH
                No changing room?

     Ambrose sits on a chair by the window and waits.  Her blouse,
     belt, skirt, fall on the bed.  As her slender arm reaches down to
     pick up the Armani:

     AMBROSE

     grips her wrist, the flimsy Armani dangling in the air.

     CLOSE - NYAH

     meeting Ambrose's look.

                                NYAH
                You're not interested in seeing how it
                looks.

                                AMBROSE
                Oh, I am.  Later..

     The Armani falls in a fragile heap on the floor.

     CLOSE - ETHAN (DUSK)

     standing off to one side, listening to Nekhorvich's voice.

                                NEKHORVICH
                ..therefore in a search for our hero,
                Bellerophon, we created a monster,
                Chimera.

                                LUTHER
                Why's Nekhorvich going on about an old Greek myth?

                                ETHAN
                Nekhorvich specialized in recombining DNA
                molecules.  In the myth, Bellerophon killed
                Chimera, a recombinant monster with the head
                of a lion and the tail of a serpent who
                plagued the ancient world.  I think Nekhorvich
                has created a monster virus in Chimera and 
                apparently the means to kill it in
                Bellerophon.

                                LUTHER
                That simple, huh?

                                ETHAN
                Why not?

     CLOSE - NYAH (INT. AMBROSE BEDROOM - DUSK)

     lying back on a pillow, looking and off into space to right
     off camera.  She hears Ambrose's voice, with Ethan's voice

                                AMBROSE'S VOICE/ETHAN'S VOICE
                Damn, you're beautiful..

     Nyah reacts as if she'd been rapped on the nose, her eyes
     moist.  She turns abruptly to camera.

                                NYAH
                Did you say something?

     AMBROSE

     leaning on an elbow, looking down.

                                AMBROSE
                I said you're beautiful, Nyah.

                                NYAH
                Only because..it's spring..chalk it up
                        (looking him dead in the eye)
                - to spring fever.

     Ambrose, amused, lights a cigarette and inhaling:

                                AMBROSE
                Won't do, love.  It's not spring.  It's
                nearly autumn..You're in Oz.  everything's
                upside down and backwards here.

                                NYAH
                        (more direct)
                Maybe that's it, then.  Everything's upside
                down and backwards...

     CLOSE - ETHAN (SHEEP FARM SAFEHOUSE - DUSK)

                                ETHAN
                Luther..get us everything you can on the 
                outbreak of influenza on Bruny Island last
                month, including photos of the victims.

                                LUTHER
                Right.  I guess there aren't many flu
                epidemics in the middle of summer.

     Luther resumes working on his computer and sees Ethan is locked
     on Ambrose's compound on his computer screen, thinking of Nyah.
        
                                LUTHER (cont'd)
                She did it, Ethan.  Nyah's in the
                compound.

                                ETHAN
                Yeah?  I've just rolled up a snowball and
                tosses it into hell.

     Ethan stands.

     OUTSIDE THE SHEEP FARM SAFEHOUSE

     A brooding Ethan exits the sheep farm safehouse under a setting
     sun.

                                ETHAN'S VOICE
                Now we'll see what chance it has.

     Ethan stops, looking out over the broken plain.  His voice is
     heard overlapping into the next scene.

                                ETHAN'S VOICE (cont'd)
                        (softly)
                Damn, You're beautiful.

     CLOSE - NYAH (NIGHT)

     lying in bed, obviously hearing Ethan's voice again, and feeling
     very much alone.  She stares out into the night, a gaze that in
     its bemused intensity is an exact match to Ethan's.

     FADE:

     CLOSE - PHOTO - HONG KONG TIMES (INT. AMBROSE STUDY - EARLY DAWN)

     its front page, except for the headlines and date, covered with
     stacks of paper money, banded bundled dollars piled high as a
     cord of wood.  The amount $24 millions is written in ink over the
     money.

                                AMBROSE
                Twenty-four mil..

     Ambrose's hands shift to another photo of another newspaper, the
     LONDON TIMES, this one piled high with English pounds and the
     written amount: 37 million pounds.

                                AMBROSE'S VOICE
                Thirty-seven million pounds.  That's a
                promising bid.

     The third photo is of the AFTERNOON ARUBAN, with $14 million
     packaged on it.

     Ambrose, wearing a robe and seated at a glass-topped table, sets
     this last photo on the table on top the others.  He picks up
     Nekhorvich's digital camera, removes the film disk, and snaps it
     into its plastic case. He places the case into an envelope
     (NOTE: The same envelope seen at the track) and hands it to
     Stamp.

                                AMBROSE
                We'll need this at the track.  Well then.
                Sorted.

     Stamp is seated near him.  Glances toward Ambrose's bedroom and
     Nyah asleep in Ambrose's bed.

                                STAMP 
                        (pointedly)
                Not everything.  Why do you think she's
                really here?

                                AMBROSE
                From her point of view or mine?

                                STAMP
                Wasn't exactly gagging for it when she
                left you six months ago..The question is,
                do you trust her?     

     As he speaks, Ambrose pulls a cigar case and a cutter out of his
     robe.  Takes a cigar out of the case and clips the end of the
     cigar; the razor-sharp cutter decapitates the tip of the cigar 
     like a guillotine.

                                AMBROSE
                One considers her timing, of course -
                getting nicked within a week of the plane
                going down.  Suggestive, even borderline
                suspicious, but hardly conclusive.

                                STAMP
                Well, you've thorough about it, at any
                rate.

     Ambrose opens the cutter again to clean off the fragments of
     tobacco trapped by the cut.

                                AMBROSE
                Tell me, Hugh.  You don't exactly hang on
                Nyah's every word and gesture, do you?
                Fairly ratty nail, that.

     Sean touches the nail of Stamp's left pinkie finger.  Stamp
     reacts by slightly withdrawing his hand.

                                STAMP 
                Sean..

     With his left hand Ambrose grabs Stamp's left wrist.

                                AMBROSE
                You're not scrutinizing any casual shrug 
                for some hair-splitting nuance, are you?

                                STAMP
                Sean, please..

     Sean pulls Stamp's hand closer.

                                AMBROSE
                Suppose she is some sort of Trojan horse
                sent in by IMF to spy in us, why should I
                deny myself the pleasure of a ride or two?
                Or don't you think I can learn more from
                her than she can from me?

     Ambrose twists Stamp's wrist so that Stamp drops to one knee
     trying to alleviate the pain.

                                STAMP
                        (in pain)
                I do!..

     Ambrose leans in close to Stamp's face as he places the cutter
     around Stamp's pinkie.

                                AMBROSE
                Now Hugh, you must realize that some of us
                have the burden of sex to deal with..and
                my dear chap.  I may or may not know why 
                she thinks she's here, but I'm willing to
                take the risk, because Hugh, I am gaging
                for it..

     Ambrose closes the cutter on Stamp's finger and cuts the nail,
     just nicking the top of the finger and drawing blood.  Stamp
     cries out.  Ambrose tosses Stamp a napkin, light his cigar and
     exhale.

                                AMBROSE (cont'd)
                Don't ever question my judgment again.

                                                        DISSOLVE:

     EMPTY FRAME (EXT. RANDWICK RACE TRACK - DAY)

     with no sound, the back stretch an unrecognizable blur until
     horses at high speed burst into the frame bringing with them the
     sight and sound of their great nostrils snorting and gasping for
     jostling and going to the whip, the sound of the crowd
     overwhelming all but the announcer's voice carrying everyone
     around the far turn and into the home stretch with a ringing,
     controlled frenzy.

     EXT - PRIVATE BLEACHER (DAY)

     Nyah and Ambrose rising as the horses cross the finish.
        
                                AMBROSE
                        (surprised)
                You won.

                                NYAH
                        (looking at her ticket)
                I suppose I did.

                                AMBROSE
                What made you pick that nag?  She'd never 
                won a bloody thing.

                                NYAH
                'Thief in the Night?'

                                AMBROSE
                Say no more.  I'm off to grab a drink.
                Still favor Bellinis?

     She smiles, a little shakily.  Ambrose leaves.

                                A VOICE
                Naturally Vain..

     It's Billy passing behind her.

                                NYAH
                Pardon me?

                                BILLY
                'Naturally Vain.'  In the fourth.
                Check her out.  She's due.

     Billy hands her a chest sheet and moves on.  She opens it to the
     fourth race.  Taped onto 'Naturally Vain' is a small plastic
     piece with the note.  she regards the note, places the plastic
     piece in her ear.

                                ETHAN'S VOICE
                You can speak as if I'm right by your 
                side.

                                NYAH
                        (picking up binoculars)
                Where are you?

                                ETHAN'S VOICE
                At the mounting enclosure, just off the 
                tracks at two o'clock.

     THRU BINOCULARS - NYAH'S POV - MOVING

     thru the crowd onto the track over to the pre-post paddock where
     an animated gaggle of owners, heavy batters and investerace touts
     surround it.  Only Ethan is stock still - and looking up at Nyah.

     CLOSE - NYAH

     a swift intake of breath as she see him.

                                ETHAN
                How's it going?  Everything okay?

                                NYAH
                Just like old times.

                                ETHAN
                Just like old times?

                                NYAH
                Just about..

     She appears to be the picture of unruffled sang-froid.

                                ETHAN
                Tell me who you've run into at Ambrose's.

     ETHAN'S POV (THRU GLASSES)

     moving from Nyah to the champagne bar just behind where Ambrose
     is seen greeting someone in the crowd and they sit at a corner
     table in front of the window overlooking the track.

                                NYAH
                        (a breath, then:)
                Near as I can tell, there's at least a
                half-dozen other blokes about the place.
                Maybe more.  Hugh Stamp, an old mate of
                Sean's, is the only one I recognize, bit
                of a creep and then some..

     POV ETHAN

     Stamp, stands a pillar, his finger bandages, looking
     glum and looking down at Nyah.

                                ETHAN
                We know him.  He's over your left
                shoulder, looking right at you as you go on..

                                NYAH
                - Michael, his driver's an Aussie, new to
                me.  Then there's the blokes in the
                annex at the back of the house.

                                ETHAN
                Have you met them?

                                NYAH
                Annex is strictly off limits to me and
                they never come to the main house,
                Michael even takes their meals to them
                all but shoves them under the door.

                                ETHAN
                        (looking into Champagne Bar)
                I've no doubt.

     ETHAN'S POV MONOCULAR VIDEO RANGE FINDER

     of Ambrose sitting with someone whose face is obscured from his
     angle by bar patrons.

     BILLY

     is also looking.

     POV RANGE FINDER BILLY

     and from his point of view it can be seen that Ambrose is talking
     with John McCloy, the head Biocyte.  Ambrose takes an envelope
     out of his inner left jacket pocket and from it pulls out a small
     plastic container marked 'S.G.' (Identical to the object first
     seen in Nekhorvich's satchel at airport security.)  He opens it
     and removes a small shiny object about the size of a quarter.  He
     turns to the window and gestures.  Stamp enters the bar.

                                BILLY
                Ambrose is meeting some bloke in the bar.
                Big bloke, ginger hair. They're into
                something.

     ETHAN'S POV

                                ETHAN
                I'll be damned.  It's McCloy, the Biocyte
                CEO.

                                LUTHER
                Nekhorvich's boss?

                                ETHAN
                Yep.

                                NYAH
                Ambrose has photographs of newspapers with
                loads of money piled on them -- thirty-
                seven million on the London Times.  What's
                that about?

                                ETHAN
                Bids from possible Chimera buyers -- to
                prove that as of the date on the newspaper
                those bids are back up by earnest money --

     INT - VAN - LUTHER

     is monitoring both cameras.  All see Ambrose give the little
     wafer-like object to Stamp who places it in a small camera, hands
     it back to Ambrose and exits, waiting just outside the glass
     door.  Ambrose hands the camera to McCloy who looks puzzled.

                                LUTHER
                Looks like Ambrose is showing McCloy how
                to use a digital camera..

     McCloy puts it to his eye, fumbles, then with Ambrose's
     direction:
                                
                                ETHAN
                Whatever McCloy's looking at, he's not
                happy about.

     McCloy puts the camera down.  The two men have words.  McCloy
     shakily leave the table.  Ambrose opens the camera.

                                LUTHER
                Ambrose just pulled the memory card out of
                the digital camera and put it into an
                envelope, put it in his inner left jacket
                pocket...

                                ETHAN
                Left jacket pocket?

                                LUTHER
                Roger that.

                                ETHAN
                Confirm.  Left jacket pocket.

                                LUTHER
                Left jacket pocket confirmed.
                
     ETHAN BY THE MOUNTING ENCLOSURE

                                ETHAN
                Nyah, Ambrose is heading back.  There's an
                enveloped inside --

                                NYAH
                -- his left jacket pocket.

                                ETHAN
                Affirmative.

     AMBROSE

     passes by Stamp on his way back, hands him the camera.

                                NYAH
                        (after a brief pause)
                Where do I meet you?

                                ETHAN
                Betting table twelve off the paddock.
                Nyah, are you up to this?

                                NYAH
                I'll muddle through.

     WIDE ANGLE - BLEACHER (DAY)

     Ambrose arriving with a pair of drinks.  Nyah rises.

                                AMBROSE
                See anything you like?

                                NYAH
                Yeah.  Naturally vain -- but they're about
                to close the betting table and I haven't a
                sou..

     While Ambrose is still juggling the drinks, Nyah reaches into his
     trouser pockets, and rummages around.

                                AMBROSE
                        (laughing)
                Nyah!

                                ETHAN
                Billy, make sure Nyah's not followed.

                                BILLY
                No worries, mate.

     She pulls out a fifty-dollar note.

                                NYAH
                Would you mind terribly?

                                AMBROSE (cont'd)
                        (amused and turned on)
                - not at all.  But you'll pay for that
                and with interest..

                                NYAH
                I've no doubt..

     She heads up the stairs.

                                AMBROSE
                        (reaching into his pocket for
                        money)
                Hold on.

     Ambrose grabs her arm, and she almost drops the envelope she's
     just lifted.  (NOTE: It is important not to see her actually lift
     it).  She's holding it, pinned between her right arm and side.  As
     it's slipping, she notes Stamp above her, looking down and has to
     conceal what she's holding from him as well:

                                AMBROSE (cont'd)
                Put down a couple of hundred for.

                                NYAH
                To win?

                                AMBROSE
                What else?

     She takes it and as she does the envelope falls, but she manages
     to catch it with her left hand, blocking the move with her body
     as she does.

     WIDER ANGLE - NYAH

     moves along the aisle.

                                ETHAN'S VOICE
                Luther, smallest digital you got.  Ready
                to transmit.  Betting table twelve.

     EXT - VAN (DAY)

     designated as NEW SOUTH WALES DELIVERIES, 'anytime, anywhere.'
     Luther bursts out of the van, carrying the tiny camera and begins
     to thread his way thru cars and foot traffic.

     BILLY

     in dramatic contrast ambles at a conspicuously leisurely pace.

     NYAH

     passes Stamp, not seeing him standing just a row above, blocked
     from her by one of the pillars.  Stamp idly regards her and then 
     decides: he follows.

     LUTHER

     perspiring, approaches the betting table thru the last of the
     parked cars.

     STAMP

     approaches the door thru which Nyah had gone and starts to open
     it - only to have the door slammed in his face and on his
     bandaged finger by Billy, in a track usher's uniforms.

                                BILLY
                        (very solicitous)
                Sorry about that, mate, that must've
                really - aggrhh!..

     Even as Stamp winces in pain his arm has shot out and Billy finds
     himself pinned to the wall gasping for air.  If he'd been welded
     there by a band of steal he'd have more room to maneuver.

                                STAMP
                Say again?

                                BILLY
                Aggrhh-aggrhh-aggrhh...

                                STAMP
                Whatever you're about in future, watch
                your step.  Never know who you might run
                into...

     Stamp looks around, Nyah's nowhere in sight.  He's lost her.  Sees
     his hand's bleeding and lets Billy go, who nearly drops to the 
     floor.

                                STAMP
                Where's the loo then?

                                BILLY
                        (pointing up)
                - aggrhh-aggrhh-aggrhh...

     Stamp heads up the men's room.

                                BILLY
                        (croaking it out)
                ...

     Shakes his head, feeling lucky to escape with his life.

     EXT - PADDOCK - BETTING TABLE TWELVE

     Nyah into shot.  Stands in line.  She looks around.

                                ETHAN'S VOICE
                How'd you do?  Don't turn around.

     Nyah turns and looks Ethan dead in the eye.

                                NYAH
                I managed.

                                ETHAN
                You noticed.  What're you going to do?
                Spank me?

     She slips Ethan the envelope.  Ethan himself returns the look,
     holding it in spite of:

                                BILLY'S VOICE
                Stamp's out of the loo.

     Luther arrives, with the camera, opening for Ethan.  Nyah turns
     away.  Ethan pulls out the tiny memory card, slips it in the 
     camera.

                                ETHAN (CONT'D)
                        (looking into camera)
                This is going to take a couple of
                minutes..

     LUTHER

     is racing back to the van.

                                LUTHER
                There in twenty, Ethan..

     NYAH AND ETHAN (IN LINE)

     edge toward the window.

                                BILLY'S VOICE
                Stamp's a little shaky, but headed your
                way, mate.

                                ETHAN
                Copy that.
                        (to Nyah)
                Who do you like?  In the race?

                                NYAH
                        (nervous, she's heard Billy
                        too)
                What race are we talking about?

     INT - VAN (DAY)

     A sweaty Luther:

                                LUTHER 
                I'm booted up.  Go, Ethan.

                                BILLY'S VOICE
                He's heading down the stairs, now..

     Ethan places the digital camera on play and begins to go thru the
     stills.  As they cliff off, Ethan is visibly affected.

     LUTHER IN THE VAN

     watches the stills as well.  He's no less affected.

     ETHAN WITH NYAH

     He mutters some expletive under his breath, then, evenly:

                                ETHAN
                I want you out of Ambrose's place.

                                BILLY'S VOICE
                He's one tier from the bottom.

     Ethan glances over to the bottom of the stairs.

                                NYAH
                What are you talking about?

     As he lowers camera and removes the memory card.

                                ETHAN
                I want you out of there.

                                NYAH
                Why?  What's happened. What did you see?

                                BILLY
                Thirty steps..

     Slipping card back into envelope.

                                ETHAN
                Nyah, you've done more than enough.  Even
                the best of snake charmers get bit.

                                NYAH
                Ethan, tell me -
                                
                                BILLY'S VOICE
                Twenty, nineteen..

     Ethan's been talking to someone he's been urging to walk, not run
     to the nearest exit.  Now he drops all pretence:

                                ETHAN
                I want you out of Australia!
                        (more quickly)
                ..I don't know how much more plainly I can
                put it.

                                NYAH
                How do you suggest I go about it?

                                ETHAN
                He's touched your heart.  You're
                overwhelmed.  You need to think it over.
                You'll meet him somewhere in a month.  If
                You're not out in 48 hours I'm coming in
                and getting you out.  Give me the ear
                piece.

     She just gets it out of her hear and gives it to Ethan when she
     reaches the bookie who warns her to get down her bet.  She gives
     him her money and gets the tickets just as the buzzer goes off -
     no more bets.  Flustered by it she picks up her tickets but drops 
     the envelope.  She quickly kneels and scrambles to recover it,
     tucking it away and looking up - to see Stamp standing over her.
     almost exactly where Ethan had stood when she looked away.

     NYAH

     tries not to register alarm while she gauges how much Stamp had
     seen.

                                STAMP
                Get your bet down?

                                NYAH
                Just..

     She rises.  Stamp waits only a moment then follows.

     AT THE PRIVATE BLEACHERS (DAY)

     everyone's on their feet, the horses are in the backstretch.

     Ambrose is watching the race through binoculars.  Nyah comes up 
     behind and puts her arms around him.  With her left hand she puts
     the envelope into his right jacket pocket.

                                AMBROSE
                Your nag is making a run for it on the
                outside!
                        (lowering binoculars)
                Bloody hell, Nyah!

     She's momentarily startled.  Then:

                                AMBROSE (CONT'D)
                You picked another winner!

                                NYAH
                Well, that's good, isn't?

     A BLOW UP (INT. SHEEP FARM IMF SAFEHOUSE - DAY)

     of a shot from a digital camera card.

                                ETHAN'S VOICE
                Dr. Segi Gradski, Nekhorvich's
                colleague and lifelong friend..

     The photos is coded with the data in the lower left hand corner,
     01.27.99, the time in the right, 10:02:56 A.M.  Burned into the
     photo is '20 hours, 03 minutes after exposure.'

     Ethan paunches in.

                                ETHAN'S VOICE (cont'd)
                Twenty hours and three minutes after
                exposure.
                        (sotto voce)
                Twenty hours.

     Ethan doesn't say anything for a moment, then goes on to the next
     photo on the card: '25 hours, 40 minutes after exposure.'  It's
     Gradski again.  Gradski's eyes are darkly circled, his skull look 
     mottled.

                                ETHAN
                Six hours later.

     Another photo: '31 hours, 30 minutes after exposure.' Gradski's
     bleeding from nose, mouth and ears, the skin eruptions are
     pervasive, his body an open wound.

                                ETHAN ( cont'd)
                Six more hours.

     The next photo.  '34 hours, 25 minutes after exposure.'  Gradski's
     body at rest.

                                ETHAN (cont'd)
                Three hours after that, Gradski was dead..

                                LUTHER
                Here's a victim from the Bruny Island
                outbreak.

     The victim's face shows a devastation undeniably like Gradski's.

     A long, long moment as Ethan, Luther, and Billy sit in silence.

                                BILLY
                Oh, happy day.

     Ethan looks again at the first photo of Gradski.

                                ETHAN
                Nekhorvich said 'However we travel, I
                must arrive at my destination within 20 hours
                hours of departure.'

     CLOSE - NYAH (EXT. AMBROSE VERANDA - LATE AFTERNOON)

     Nyah is on the balcony.  Ambrose enters with two glasses of 
     champagne.  

                                AMBROSE
                To Australia.  It's made so many convicts
                feel at home.  Here's hoping it does the
                same for you..

     He laughs.  She doesn't.

                                NYAH
                Sean, there's something I've been meaning
                to talk to you about... Isn't going to be
                easy for me to say.

                                AMBROSE
                        (jocular)
                Then don't say it.

                                NYAH
                I don't know what to do about you, Sean.
                I'm more than a bit muddled.  I need time.

                                AMBROSE
                To do what?

                                NYAH
                Sort it all out.

                                AMBROSE
                And you're going to have time.  There's
                been a change of plans.

                                NYAH
                A change of plans?

                                AMBROSE
                Yes.  We won't be able to have dinner
                tonight.  Something's come up.  I hope you
                don't mind.

                                NYAH
                Oh, no, not at all.  Maybe just a bit.

                                AMBROSE
                Ulrich will be about.  He'll look after
                you.

                                NYAH
                Lovely.

     INT - AMBROSE STUDY (LATE AFTERNOON)

     Ambrose enters, slips off his jacket and hangs it over a chair.
     He walks to a desk and brings up a computer the Biocyte website
     and McCloy infomercial.  Stamp notes that Ambrose is 
     on the computer and moves to the desk.

                                STAMP
                I thought you were going to dinner.

                                AMBROSE
                        (pulling up something on the
                        computer)
                Hugh, take care of the Nekhorvich memory
                card.

                                STAMP
                Where is it?

                                AMBROSE
                In the envelope in my pocket.  My
                right.. jacket..pocket..

     Stamp leans over and pulls out the envelope.  As he does he sees 
     Ambrose has pulled up and started to play McCloy's informercial.

                                AMBROSE (cont'd)
                        (calmly)
                We've got an opportunity here.  I'm not
                going to miss it..

     CAMERA CARD PHOTOS (INT. SHEEP FARM - ETHAN & CREW)

     a microscopic view of myriads of ugly green spiky objects amid
     exploding red ones..

                                ETHAN
                Chimera attacking human blood..

     One more shot.  A lavender stained group of spiky objects amid
     exploding the green ones.

                                ETHAN (cont'd)
                Bellerophon attacking Chimera..

     On an adjacent screen is a frozen frame of McCloy looking thru
     the digital camera at the racetrack.

                                BILLY
                Ambrose obviously got these from
                Nekhorvich on the plane.

                                LUTHER
                What manic invents  disease like that in
                the first place?  Why would he do it?

                                ETHAN
                I don't know, but Nekhorvich was not a
                manic.  Get me a twenty on Nyah.

                                LUTHER
                She must still be on the property.
                                
                                ETHAN
                I told her to get outta there.

     EXT - LIMO (EVE)

     McCloy gets in the rear of the limo and lights up a cigar.  The
     limo takes off.  another car pulls out and tags along behind the
     limo.

     INT - OTHER CAR (MOVING)

     Michael at the wheel.

     INT - LIMO - MOVING (EVE)

     McCloy doesn't like the taste of the cigar, goes to toss it out
     but the electronic window button doesn't work.  He notices the
     evening paper partially open on the seat.  His name leaps out. He
     opens the paper

     THE HEADLINES

     announce that John C. McCloy, CEO of Biocyte, Inc., one of the
     world's leading pharmaceutical companies, has died of a straight
     and terrible strain of influenza

     Shocked, McCloy drops the paper, calling out:

                                MCCLOY
                George.  George.  George.

     The drover doesn't turn around.  McCloy can't believe it.  He
     bangs on chauffeur window.  The driver turns on the air
     conditioning in the rear of the limo.  McCloy clutches his throat
     and passes out.

     MCCLOY (INT. ICU UNIT - NIGHT)

     regains consciousness.  He's got tubes coming out of every
     orifice and is contained in the equivalent of a plastic bubble.
     Drenched in perspiration and he looks around for a call button.
     He grips the side of the bed.

                                MCCLOY
                Bloody room..just..shut your eyes, shut
                your eyes.

     He can't resist.  Opens them to look up thru the plastic to see:

     NEKHORVICH

     a shimmering blur coming in and out of focus.

                                MCCLOY (cont'd)
                I'll be buggered!..What's this then?


                                NEKHORVICH
                A visit from an old friend.

                                MCCLOY
                What's happening here?  You're dead!

                                NEKHORVICH
                Fatigued, certainly.  But dead is a little
                extreme.  On the other hand, when me dear
                Gradski had your pulse and blood pressure
                he has less than ten hours to live.

                                MCCLOY
                        (confused)
                It was in the bloody papers, on the
                telly..what's this about Gradski?

                                NEKHORVICH
                You are infected with Chimera, my friend.

     INT - AMBROSE BEDROOM (NIGHT) NYAH

     is on the phone.

                                NYAH
                International, please.  I'd like to make a
                reservation on the next available flight tonight.

                                OPERATOR
                Where to?

                                NYAH
                Where is next available flight going?

     The operator answers.

                                NYAH
                Fine.  I'll take it.

     She hangs up, goes to the door.  The house is eerily silent.

     POV - STAIRWELL (NIGHT)

     a play of shadows, the sound of the kitchen fridge.

     CLOSE - NYAH

     Moves softly downstairs & hesitates at bottom, glancing about.

                                NYAH
                Ulrich?..Ulrich!...

     Silence.  she goes into the kitchen.  No one.  She goes out the door.

     OVER NYAH'S SHOULDER - MOVING (EXT. SYDNEY - NIGHT)

     running pell-mell down to the shore.  Stops.  Looks outside the
     small skiff moored at the end of the dock.  It's dark and she
     decides to chance it.  She moves onto the pier, trying to glide
     by the boathouse.  A figure darts out and grabs her.  She tries to
     scream but can't.  The figure whips her around and she sees:

                                ETHAN
                Easy, easy, easy, shhh!

                                NYAH
                Oh Ethan!..

     She throws her arms around him.

                                ETHAN
                Are you okay?

                                NYAH
                I am now.  Get me out of here.  Just get
                me out of here.

                                ETHAN
                It's going to be okay.

     He holds her.

     INT - HOSPITAL ROOM

     McCloy's strapped down, but manages to reach the call button and
     push it.  Again and again.

                                NEKHORVICH
                No use, my friend.  The medical staff
                wants no part of this.  Doctors don't
                fancy the idea of dying any more than
                anybody else.

     McCloy stares at Nekhorvich for a long moment.

                                MCCLOY
                How could I possibly be infected?

     Nekhorvich shrugs.

                                NEKHORVICH
                That's exactly what Gradski said - 27
                hours before he died.  With Chimera, the
                most minute exposure can be fatal.

     McCloy again looks at his vital sign on the monitor.  He grips
     the edge of the hospital bed.

                                NEKHORVICH
                But then you shouldn't be feeling to ill.
                not for another three of four hours 
                anyway.

     McCloy breaks a fresh sweat in a sudden spasm of anxiety.

                                MCCLOY
                You have Bellerophon.

                                NEKHORVICH
                        (mildly)
                Do I?

                                MCCLOY
                You took it!  All of it!  And what if I need
                it?

                                NEKHORVICH
                        (amused)
                'If?'  My, my, my...the five hundred
                people on Bruny Island that you
                deliberately infected with Chimera needed
                it as well.

                                MCCLOY
                Oh, please!  How was I to know they had to
                be treated with Bellerophon within twenty
                hours?

                                NEKHORVICH
                By asking me.

                                MCCLOY
                You still don't get it, do you?  You want
                to make an omelet, you break a few eggs -
                I needed to know just how bad the disease
                was - in the real world, not the lab.  And
                you never know til you try.  You thought
                you were genetically splicing together
                strains of influenza to create a 
                cure for all influenzas.  But I saw you
                creating a disease so terrible in Chimera
                that the cure would be priceless.

                                NEKHORVICH
                You wanted the disease in order to peddle
                the cure.

                                MCCLOY
                Well, the thought had occurred to me.  I needed
                Chimera in order to peddle Bellerophon.  For
                hero to be appreciated, you need a monster.
                Now that's not so difficult to understand, is
                it?  Look, time was a shot of penicillin could
                knock off every bloody bug in the zoo!  Not
                anymore!..have you any idea the R&D money it
                takes to float one little pissy boutique
                antibiotic that's barely effective against one
                strain of one bacterium?  If I couldn't makes 
                money killing the microscopic little shits that
                are out there, you'd help me put one out there
                I can make on!..there it is.  I've
                confessed.  I, John C. McCloy, am in business
                to make money.  Lilly's making billions feeding
                Prozac to depressed dogs.  Pfizer doesn't even
                know where to put the money they're making on
                Viagra, and let me tell you that shit didn't do
                a thing for me even at twice the recommended
                dose, Jesus, who do I have to screw to get a
                a break!..now get me out of here, get me treated
                and let's go back to work!..

                                NEKHORVICH
                You know, I think it's a little late for
                that.  Do give my regards to Gradski if
                you see him.
                
     INT - HALLWAY (OUTSIDE MCCLOY'S ROOM)

     Nekhorvich heaves a sigh and rips off a latex mask, and the vocal
     oscillator, revealing an exhausted Ethan.  Angle widens to
     include Luther and Billy in hospital greens.

     Luther and Billy nod in disgusted assent.

     EXT - ANNEX (NIGHT) NYAH

     holds tight in her embrace with Ethan.

                                NYAH
                Ethan, you know what frightens me most
                when I'm with him?..the thought of never 
                seeing you..how are we getting out of here?

                                ETHAN
                Nyah, it's very important not do
                anything to alarm Ambrose..

                                NYAH
                What?  You told me to get out of here.  I
                thought you were here to collect me.  I
                was so relieved.

                                ETHAN
                        (with growing urgency)
                No time to explain.  You've done well,
                and we're so close.  So close.  It's
                critical that you do whatever Ambrose
                asks.  Don't worry - it'll be over soon..
                That's a promise.. Come on, now off you
                go!

     He gives her an affectionate smile and she reluctantly heads back
     to the house, her expression troubled, even suspicious.

     INT - HALLWAY (OUTSIDE MCCLOY'S ROOM)

     Having just taken off the mask, Ethan stands with Luther and Billy.

                                LUTHER
                        (disgusted by what he's heard)
                So Ambrose has Bellerophon and McCloy's
                got Chimera.

                                BILLY
                There guys are walking around with
                different halves of the same dollar bill?

                                ETHAN
                Ambrose got Bellerophon from Nekhorvich
                on the plane, but he didn't get the Chimera
                virus.

                                LUTHER
                Yeah.  Why else would he come back to
                Australia?  If he had them both, he could
                sell them anywhere.

                                ETHAN
                I kill Chimera at Biocyte and he's sitting
                on a cure without a disease.

                                LUTHER
                You've got the voice print, I'll get us in..

     EXT - AMBROSE HOUSE (NIGHT)

     Ethan enters and tears off his mask, revealing Ambrose filled
     with implacable rage.  He looks up to see Stamp who's been
     obviously waiting for him.  Tearing the voice oscillator.
     Leaning with both hands on a counter-surveillance monitor table
     he stares at the floor, his face rictus of hateful intensity.

                                STAMP
                You were right.  Hunt stung McCloy
                tonight.  He knows.  They'll be going into
                Biocyte...

     Ambrose looks up slowly to Stamp who's been standing by.

                                AMBROSE
                Good..then we go where he'll be, don't 
                we?  Well done, Hugh.  Well done.

     CHAUFFEUR'S WINDOW (INT. LIMO - EVE)

     being rapped on by the driver.

     MCCLOY 

     wakes with a start.  The window's lowered -- Billy's in livery.

                                BILLY
                You're home, guv'ner.  Home..

     It's taking time to register.  Then:

                                MCCLOY
                - where's George.  My regular driver.
                Where is he?

                                BILLY
                Took ill, guv'.  Touch of the flu. They
                say it's going around.  Nasty business.
                Mind you don't catch a chill now.

     Still dazed, McCloy manages to nod and exit the limo.  Billy
     drives off.

     CLOSE - COMPUTER SCREEN - BIOCYTE BUILDING BLUEPRINTS
     (INT. SHEEP FARM SAFEHOUSE)

     including all specifications.

                                ETHAN
                Luther, do you have the building up and
                running?

     Luther punches in and up comes a squat little island a hundred
     yards off shore, connected to the mainland by a wooden bridge.

                                ETHAN (cont'd)
                That's not exactly it.

                                LUTHER
                Sorry, that it a Biocyte facility, their
                storage structure..

                                ETHAN
                Nyah still on the property?

                                BILLY
                She hasn't left it.

     Then:

                                LUTHER
                Okay, here you go -

     As Luther speaks, the building - on his computer graphics, one
     with the BIOCYTE PHARMACEUTICALS ELEVATORS AND RENDERINGS, is
     being rapidly morphed to three dimension existence off the
     rendering specifications by Luther, as if the building itself
     were being constructed at a madly rapid pace, from its foundation
     to its reinforced steel structure, to its honeycombing of floors,
     to its outer skin.  Luther's reconstitution of the building lot
     static, but moving around and above it even as he proceeds.

                                ETHAN
                Let's start from the inside out.

                                LUTHER
                All storage and production of Chimera is
                done here, in this lab on the forty-second
                floor, the heart of the building.

     BIOCYTE LAB

     Only about eight personnel -- chemists in lab coats, workers in
     bio-containment suits, etc. -- populate the lab, passing through
     security door and air locks, monitoring the virus stock, pading
     the injection gun, etc.

                                LUTHER'S VOICE
                Chimera itself is kept in two places: in
                production vials in an incubation room and
                housed in a small airtight chamber - inside
                three injection guns.

                                BILLY'S VOICE
                Mate, you kill it in both places, we're
                laughin' and we go home.

     WITH LUTHER AND ETHAN

                                ETHAN
                Now how to get in there.

                                LUTHER
                No garage entrance.  Lobby's protected by 
                five guards on rotating patrol.

     Ethan watches the rendition of the Biocyte lobby on screen

     CLOSE - AMBROSE (NIGHT)

     in overhead light, his eyes are dark pits, somehow underlying her
     saturnine intensity:

                                AMBROSE
                If you look at Hunt's operational history, he
                invariably favors misdirection and deception.
                For a start he won't go into Biocyte from the
                ground where he has to risk confrontation
                with security.

                                ETHAN                        
                Not going in from the ground.  Show me the
                atrium.

     INT - BIOCYTE ATRIUM SHAFT

     The height and extent of the atrium are revealed, as well as its
     conclusion in a glass floor in the ceiling of the lab.

                                LUTHER'S VOICE
                        (unhappily)
                The atrium?  One of a kind.  Runs down the
                center of the building.  Provides 24-hour
                natural light via mirrors and daylight
                storage cells.  Optimal growing conditions
                for the virus.  Ends in a glass floor which
                doubles as part of the lab's ceiling.

     WITH LUTHER AND ETHAN

     Luther sees the glint growing in Ethan's eye.

                                LUTHER
                        Hey, atrium roof closes at sundown.

     EXT - BIOCYTE ATRIUM SHAFT

     As the sun sets, the louvers of the atrium roof begin closing.
                        
                                LUTHER'S VOICE
                And if the louvers are open for more than
                thirty seconds at night, the Civil
                Emergency alarms are tipped.  Those even I
                can't stop.  Thirty seconds total to get
                you in and the cable out.

                                ETHAN
                Security?

                                LUTHER
                Thirty-second opening in the roof and a
                250-foot drop.

                                ETHAN
                I'm not waiting 48 hours.  When we're done
                at Biocyte, if she's not out of Ambrose's,
                I'm going in and getting her out.

     CLOSE - AMBROSE (NIGHT)

                                AMBROSE
                No, Hunt will prefer to engage in some
                sort of acrobatic insanity to enter
                Biocyte somewhere through the atrium where
                security is minimal..

     Suddenly there's the roar of helicopter rotors.

     ETHAN (EXT. SYDNEY - NIGHT)

     is poised, upside down, on cable against the Sydney skyline.

     THE ATRIUM LOUVERS

     begin to open.

     WITH LUTHER (INT. VAN)

     hurriedly working the atrium's controls, hitting 'ENTER',
     repeatedly.

     INT - COPTER (HOVERING)

                                BILLY
                Package away in five..four..three..
                two..one...

                                LUTHER
                I'm not ready!

                                ETHAN
                I'm gone..

     Ethan plummets towards the atrium.

     WITH LUTHER (INT. VAN - NIGHT)

                                LUTHER
                        (frantically working controls)
                C'mon!  C'mon!  C'mon!

     ETHAN'S DESCENT

     is so swift it appears as though he's going to hit the atrium
     louvers but as he reaches roof level they crack open just enough
     for him to dart thru like thread thru a needle

     Luther begins the countdown.  His countdown continues, running
     under the action and dialogue below.

                                LUTHER'S VOICE
                ..nineteen..eighteen..seventeen...

     ETHAN IN MID-DESCENT (MOVING)

     moves down the shaft of bluish light, past the building's walls.

                                LUTHER'S VOICE
                        (low)
                ..sixteen..fifteen..

     Ethan streaks thru the beams of light toward the atrium floor.

     INT - ATRIUM FLOOR - ETHAN 

     reaches the end of the cord, slows himself to a stop and sees 
     the security guard through the window. The guard starts as he 
     catches a glimpse of Ethan's reflection in the control panels. 

                                ETHAN
                Luther, I'm looking at security. 

     CLOSE - LUTHER

                                LUTHER
                        (utterly shocked) 
                Oh. Uh. Commencing diversion. 
                        (sotto voce, typing swiftly) 
                Alarm in cosmetics. 

     INT - ATRIUM FLOOR 

     Ethan swings himself up to the ledge above the guard's window, 
     putting himself out of the puzzled guard's sight. 

                                LUTHER'S VOICE 
                Gotta get that cable out. 

     Ethan unhooks the cord and flips to the atrium floor.  An alarm
     goes off. 

                                LUTHER'S VOICE (cont'd)
                There it goes.. 

     Still confused and concerned, the guard doesn't immediately react 
     to the alarm or the ringing phone.  He finally answers the phone. 

                                GUARD #2'S VOICE 
                        (on phone) 
                AY!  what's the matter with you?  Can't you 
                hear the alarm's gone off in cosmetics? 

     The first guard gives up what's confused him. 

                                GUARD 
                        (sarcastic) 
                Right.  Then I guess I'll have to trot off 
                to see who's pinching eyeliner, won't I.
                        (exits, grumbling) 
                I'll even check the stairwell on the way. 

     UP ANGLE - CABLE                                                

     being swiftly retracted toward the atrium's opening as it closes. 

                                BILLY 
                Retracting cable. 

                                LUTHER'S VOICE 
                        (low) 
                Three..two..one.. 

     UP ANGLE - ATRIUM                                             

     The cable just makes it thru the atrium as the louvers close. 

                                BILLY'S VOICE
                Cable's clear. 

     INT - ATRIUM FLOOR - ETHAN 

     reaches down and presses a silent beeper. 

     WITH LUTHER (INT. VAN) 

     sees a little red diamond-shaped light pop on his screen 

                                LUTHER
                Transponder activated..Reading package and 
                Cable is clean. 
                        (exhaling, relieved) 
                He's on his way. 

     Staring at the buildings control panels.

     ETHAN (INT. ATRIUM) 

     hugs the floor just out of sight of the befuddled security guard. 

                                AMBROSE'S VOICE 
                He'll make the attempt at the only possible time 
                for both of us, 11 P.M. - when the guards rotate
                and the buildings air-filtration generators go
                active, covering the sound of his break-in.. 

     WITH LUTHER 

                                LUTHER 
                Ethan, the generators are about to go active. 
                We'll be out of contact for eleven minutes. 

     CLOSE - GENERATORS                                          

     dark and silent. 

     GENERATORS 

     turn over and roar to life. 

     ETHAN AT BOTTOM OF ATRIUM

     cuts into the glass floor, pops it out, and drops thru the
     opening.  None of it's heard under the generators.. 

     Ethan drops onto the lab floor and heads across the lab and up
     the ramp to the hot zone. 

                                AMBROSE'S VOICE 
                The frequency of the generators operate to 
                our advantage - cutting radio 
                communication from his team for the next 
                eleven minutes.. 

     INT - BIOCYTE LOBBY (NIGHT)

     Stamp, flanked by several of his team in Biocyte security guard 
     uniform, crosses the lobby toward a pair of actual Biocyte 
     security guards who appear more puzzled than alarmed at this
     unexpected influx.

                                ONE OF THE GUARDS
                What's this, then?  Reinforcements? 

                                STAMP 
                Not exactly, mate. 

     WITH LUTHER (INT. CONSTRUCTION VAN - NIGHT)

     His attention in drawn to a spot on the grid where Nyah's
     transponder blip, a circular yellow one in contrast to Ethan's,
     is moving.  Troubled:

                                LUTHER 
                Billy.  I think we got a problem.  Nyah's
                on the wing.  Up early.  Billy, do you 
                copy?

     INT - CHOPPER 

                                BILLY 
                Exactly where is she? 

                                LUTHER 
                ..in the building... 

                                BILLY'S VOICE 
                Say again. Sounds like you're saying 
                'she's in the building.' 

                                LUTHER
                I am. She is.

                                AMBROSE'S VOICE 
                Ethan does it the hard way to avoid 
                confrontation.  Neutralizing security 
                guards is simply too distasteful to him.. 

     INT - BIOCYTE LOBBY                                                       

     The two guards who had greeted Stamp and his arriving team lie 
     inert on the lobby floor. 

                                AMBROSE'S VOICE 
                I've never found that a problem... 

     WITH BILLY (INT. HELICOPTER - NIGHT)                                     

     Billy's so surprised he momentarily gets loose with the copter 
     and it banks off.  As it and he recover: 

                                BILLY 
                Right. Well, then. She's not likely to 
                be alone. is she? 

                                LUTHER'S VOICE 
                The question Is 'how many of 'em?' I 
                can't get thru to Ethan. Not 'til the 
                generators go off. 

                                BILLY 
                When's that? 

                                LUTHER'S VOICE 
                Not for another eight and a half minutes.

     WITH LUTHER                                                         

     staring at the red and yellow blips in vertical alignment, the 
     Yellow one, Nyah, considerably below the red one, Ethan. 

     INT - HOT ZONE ENTRANCE (NIGHT)

     The door reads.  DANGER: LIVE VIRUS: INCUBATION ZONE.  EXPOSURE IS
     FATAL.  Ethan pulls on a protective mask from his pack and puts a 
     miniaturized recorder up to the voice print activator:

                                MCCLOY'S VOICE 
                John C. McCloy.. 

     Ethan's buzzed into the hot zone.  He steps into the air locks. 

     INT - SHEEP FARM IMF SAFEHOUSE

     A small bomb is placed by the dark gloves of someone unseen. 

     EXT - CONSTRUCTION VAN - NIGHT                                         

     a shadow falls across the dirt in front of the bumper. 

     A SMALL OBJECT 

     with a digital clock face, its red LED illuminating descending
     numbers, is carefully placed inside the bumper.  The magnet on it
     doesn't quite catch.  It's then placed more carefully. 

     INT - CONSTRUCTION VAN 

     Luther doesn't pick up on the faint metallic sound just outside. 
     He's concentrating on the flashes on the screen showing the
     transponder rising in the building.  Increasingly desperate:

                                LUTHER 
                It looks like Nyah's headed toward an 
                elevator. 

     ETHAN 

     working meticulously an a computer monitor. 

     DOWN ANGLE - ELEVATOR DOORS 

     and a security guard's body lying in the corridor.  A pair of 
     trousered legs step over the body and into the elevator joining 
     Nyah's legs and feet, and other pairs of trousered legs.  The
     elevator doors close. 

                                AMBROSE'S VOICE
                If Hunt actually manages to squeak thru 
                the atrium he's liable to make it to 
                Chimera before we will.. 

     CLOSE LUTHER 

     On his computer screen the yellow dot continues its ascent, the
     two dots growing ever closer. 

                                LUTHER 
                She's in the elevator heading toward Ethan. 

                                BILLY'S VOICE 
                How much longer before you can reach him? 

                                LUTHER
                Five and a half minutes. 
                        (looking at his chronometer) 
                He's breached the hot zone.. 

                                AMBROSE'S VOICE 
                On the other hand we know where Hunt will 
                be and he doesn't know we're coming..

     INT - INCUBATION ZONE

     In front of each of three large television monitors is a vial
     shaped roughly like a sealed beaker somewhere between one and two
     liters in size.  Each one is contained behind Plexiglas and each 
     one pale yellow, one sunset red.  Behind them are monitors marked,
     respectively:  WORKING SEED STOCK, MASTER SEED STOCK, IN VITRO
     VIRUS.  Behind these is a monitor screen with a blow-up of the
     contents of the vials & the magnitude of the blow-up - 950,000x.

     These are X-Ray microscope blow-ups, i.e., allowing the viewer to
     see the motility of the virus and its metabolism, not dissimilar
     to an MRI this of Chimera in its three different cultures..

     Ethan's on the computer controls, racing thru to WORKING SEED
     STOCK, which calls for optimal levels of 6.9 pH and 11 
     degrees Celsius.  He drops the pH to zero and punches up the
     temperature to a hundred.  The effect on the greenish hue in
     the bottle is subtle but immediate - not so subtle is the
     effect on the virus seeds viewed microscopically - they
     immediately appear agitated, their microscopic DNA innards
     contracting and expanding.

     Ethan moves on to the Master Seed Stock and the In Vitro Virus
     panels on the computer.  The changes he makes are reflected on
     the digital monitoring panels before each viral container.

     THE WORKING SEED

     vial has begun to change colors from sea green to a paler pea-
     green.  The liquid itself begins to thicken:

                                COMPUTER VOICE
                        (female)
                Alert.  Chimera-working-seed-stock-pH-and-
                temperature-level-outside-optimal range.

     As the liquid grows more viscous the X-Ray have a progressively
     more difficult time penetrating the individual cells, resulting
     in a low humming sound which grows as the liquid gels.

     ETHAN

     at the control panels for maintaining the virus.

                                ANOTHER COMPUTER VOICE
                Alert.  Chimera-master-seed-stock-pH-and-
                temperature-level-outside-optimal range.
                                
                                FIRST COMPUTER VOICE
                Alert.  Chimera-working-seed-stock-pH-at-
                unacceptable-level..

                                THIRD COMPUTER VOICE
                Alert.  Chimera-in-vitro-pH-and-
                temperature-level-outside-optimal range..

                                FIRST COMPUTER VOICE
                Alert.  Chimera-working-seed-stock-pH-at-
                critical-level.  Alert.  Stock-life
                threatened.  Alert.

     The X-Ray microscope shows the individual seed-cells sticking
     together, some exploding, then all movement ceasing.  The Liquid
     itself is suddenly shod thru fluorescent sparks before it
     congeals to an opaque mush.

                                FIRST COMPUTER VOICE (cont'd)
                Alert.  Chimera stock life..terminated..

     Simultaneously with the seed stock, Ethan's damaging both the
     working seed in-vitro virus.

     WIDE ANGLE - HOT ZONE

     Ethan places a little plastique on a timer and runs up a ramp to
     the decontaminant air lock at the back entrance to the hot zone.

                                BILLY'S VOICE
                How're we doin', then?

                                LUTHER
                He should've have killed the virus in the
                incubation area..Nyah's exited the
                elevator on the same level as the lab.

                                BILLY'S VOICE
                What can we do' mate?

                                LUTHER
                        (staring at them)
                Hope he kills all the bugs before the 
                yellow dot gets to the red one.

     CLOSE - LUTHER'S SCREEN

     The read and yellow blips are now on the same plane.  The yellow
     dot moves toward the red one as if drawn by a slow motion magnet.

     DOWN ANGLE - ETHAN

     looking up as his entire body is hit with air like he's a wind
     tunnel.  When the air flow ceases, a green light goes on.

                                COMPUTER VOICE
                Subject is contaminate free.  Zero contaminate
                factor.  Subject contaminate free.

     ETHAN - GLASS OBSERVATION ROOM

     heads up a ramp to the three injection guns.  Hands in gloves he
     reaches into the chamber for one of the injection guns.

                                LUTHER'S VOICE
                He's still got three injection guns in the
                test lab..They're loaded with doses of
                Chimera which he'll destroy by firing
                into a hyper-thermal chamber.

     He places the barrel of the gun, seals the chamber, and fires.
     There's a tiny flash of light.  Ethan withdraws the gun.

     INT - CONSTRUCTION VAN

     Luther's sweating it as the clock counts down:  :30, :29, :28..

                                LUTHER
                - twenty-seven, twenty-six, twenty-five,
                come on, Ethan we're almost there!  I-I'm
                off sensitive for this..

     In a spasm of anxiety Luther bolts to his feet, wipes his brow.

                                LUTHER (cont'd)
                - eighteen seconds, the generators'll be
                off and Ethan's back on line..

     Luther glances thru the van window only to see reflected in the
     van side mirror:

     MIRROR REFLECTION - CHROME BUMPER (EXT. CONSTRUCTION VAN)

     reflected in it is the face of a digital clock, its red LED
     illuminating the clock's numbers fourteen - thirteen - twelve -

     WITH LUTHER

                                LUTHER
                        (realizing what he's in for)
                Oh - oh - oh -

     Even as he moans he's frantically ripping out the computer and
     cords dangling, hotfoots toward the van exit.

     INT - HOT ZONE - GLASS OBSERVATION ROOM

     Ethan fires the second injection gun.  Picks up the third and
     last.  He pauses as he's about to fire it, staring intently
     suddenly the gun is held by:

     NEKHORVICH

     who turns the barrel from the hyper-thermal chamber and releases        
     into his wrist.

     BACK TO ETHAN - GLASS OBSERVATION ROOM

     whose vision of of Nekhorvich fades.  Still thinking of Nekhorvich he
     continues to stare at the gun for another moment and before he can fire:

     INT - SHEEP FARM IMF SAFEHOUSE

     The bomb's LED readout shows 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1.. As it reaches 0
     a small light on the bomb suddenly stops its incessant blinking.

     EXT - VAN

     explodes.  Saw horses and dirt fly.

     INT - GLASS OBSERVATION ROOM - ETHAN

     looks up just in time to see Ambrose and team arrive at the far 
     end of the lab.  They immediately open fire, shattering the
     room's walls and the glass injection gun chamber.  As the
     injection gun begins falling to the lab floor below, one of
     Ambrose's team runs to grab it, but before he can reach it he is
     shot by Ethan, who's falling to the floor below.

                                AMBROSE
                        (to Ulrich)
                Get it.

     As Ethan hits and dives for cover, Ulrich goes for the gun
     Ethan shoots Ulrich in the leg.  Ulrich hops back in pain.

                                AMBROSE
                Those were two explosions, your van and
                your safehouse, in case you didn't hear
                them both -- I believe that means you've
                also lost a friend.

     Ethan's crouching on the ground protected behind a series of
     vertical metal sheets.

                                ETHAN
                And you couldn't walk to tell me about it.

     Ethan moves to pick up the injection gun which lies in the
     shattered glass on the floor.  Ambrose, Wallis, and a couple of
     other Ambrose team members fire, kicking up broken glass.  Ethan
     backs off.

                                AMBROSE
                        (yelling)
                Hold your fire, dammit!

     The two spot one another in a mirror on the far wall of the hot
     zone..

                                AMBROSE (cont'd)
                Well, Hunt.  How've you been?
                
                                ETHAN
                        (smiling)
                Fight a bit of a cold..

                                AMBROSE
                And you're happy about that?

                                ETHAN
                Beats fighting the flu, I'm here to tell
                you.

                                AMBROSE
                You know, that was the hardest part of
                having to portray you.  Grinning like an
                idiot every fifteen minutes.

                                ETHAN
                I would've thought the hardest part was
                exercising restraint.  Curbing that
                pressing need of your to get your gun 
                off.  You were in such a hurry to knock
                off that 747, you never figured out where
                the virus really was.

                                AMBROSE
                I knew where it was.

                                ETHAN
                Oh.  then you knew the only way 
                could smuggle the live virus to the CDC
                scientists in Atlanta was by injecting
                himself and using his own bloodstream as a 
                Petri dish, doing it inside of twenty
                hours so he could take the anti-virus and
                still have it be effective.  You knew that
                while you were knocking him off and
                destroying the very thing you came for.

     Ethan has been using this exchange to ease a fresh seventeen
     round clip into his weapon and he punctuates this last with a
     spray of gunfire, attempting to cover his own effort to the reach
     the injection gun.  The return fire nearly hits the injection
     gun, kicking up glass and dust and making it move around on the
     floor.

                                AMBROSE
                Stop!  Put a sock in it!  Hit that bloody
                gun and you'll spray the bloody virus all
                over the place!

     Everybody's regained cover but the injection gun remains out of
     everybody's reach.

                                ETHAN
                There it is, guys, the last of it.

                                AMBROSE
                Yep.  You've provided us with a golden
                opportunity to have both the bug and the
                bug killer.

                                ETHAN
                What was the top bid?

                                AMBROSE
                Why, you going to make me a better offer?

                                ETHAN
                Than thirty-seven million pounds?  Not
                really.

                                AMBROSE
                        (not amused)
                Somebody's been slipping you our mail.
                Come on out here, you bad girl.

     Nyah walks out into view on her own.  Ethan sees her reflection in
     the mirror.  Enraged, but trying to control it.

                                ETHAN
                She doesn't belong here, Sean.  Let her go.

                                AMBROSE
                She wouldn't  be here if it wasn't for
                you, Hunt.  from this moment you're
                responsible for what happens to her, and
                if you're looking out for her well-being,
                I suggest you advise her to pick up the
                gun and bring it to me.  Ball's in your
                court, Hunt.  What've you got to say?
                Nyah's waiting for your answer.

     A pregnant pause.

                                LUTHER'S VOICE
                        (breaking through the static)
                Ethan, Nyah's in the building!  Do you 
                copy?

     WITH LUTHER (EXT. BIOCYTE)

     a mess amid the rubble of the construction van.

     ETHAN

                                ETHAN
                        (dryly)
                Thank you.

                                ETHAN (cont'd)
                Sure he won't shoot you the minute he's
                got it?

                                AMBROSE
                Oh, Hunt, please! One can't hold Nyah
                responsible for her actions..

                                ETHAN
                In other words, you're calling her a
                flake.

     CLOSE - NYAH

     listening.

                                AMBROSE
                You know women, mate.  Like monkeys, they
                are.  Won't let go of one branch til
                they've got a grip on the next...get it,
                Nyah.  I'll cover you.

     Ambrose cocks his weapon.

                                AMBROSE (cont'd)
                I'm waiting.

                                NYAH
                        (not much more than body
                length from Ethan)
                This isn't exactly working out the way you
                thought it would, Ethan.  Sorry.

     Finger on the injection trigger, she rises and turns the barrel
     on her arm, firing.  The sound of the air pressure pushing the
     virus into her is unmistakable, as is the circle of tiny puncture
     wounds on her skin.  Nyah moves in front of Ethan, covering him,
     as she turns to face Ambrose.

     ETHAN

     shocked by Nyah's gesture but as she addresses Ambrose he
     resets the 'Countdown' on his chronometer to twenty hours.  As
     it drops into the nineteen:

                                AMBROSE
                        (frustrated in the extreme)
                You..bitch!

     She's been laughing away with Ethan:

                                NYAH
                You're not going to shoot, Sean.  Not
                this bitch.  She's worth thirty-seven
                million pounds.

     CLOSE - ETHAN'S HANDS

     fingers press a red button on a tiny detonator.  There's a bright
     heat flash from the hot zone and an explosion of gas and water --
     the plastique killing any airborne virus.

     Ethan uses the diversion to grab Nyah and run with her to the far
     side of the lab, behind a stock of horizontal cylinders.

     INT - LAB

     Ambrose and team recover from the explosion and begin firing on
     the tanks protecting Ethan and Nyah, surrounding the two with
     fire and jets of released steam.

     INT - LAB - ETHAN AND NYAH

     behind the stack of tanks.  Ethan launches an explosive down a
     short hallway, blowing a hole in the building's exterior wall.

     INT - ENTRANCES TO THE LAB

     A group of Biocyte security guards enter from behind Ambrose and
     team and catch them off-guard.  All hell breaks loose.

     INT - LAB - ETHAN AND NYAH

                                ETHAN
                        (outraged)
                What did you think you were doing!

                                NYAH
                I wasn't thinking!  Just..trying to keep
                you from getting hurt, that's all.

     This hits Ethan with the force of a blow.

                                ETHAN
                - you who don't have a conscience.

                                NYAH
                        (something of surprise to
                        her)
                I guess I lied..You can't get both of us 
                out of here, can you?

                                ETHAN
                No.

                                NYAH
                Then you'll have to kill me before it's
                too late.  Before I start killing people.

                                ETHAN
                No.

                                NYAH
                I'm infected with Chimera.  You know you
                don't have a choice.  Just do it now.

     She puts Ethan's gun to her forehead.

                                NYAH (cont'd)
                For god's sake, get it over with.

     THE HAMMER

     pulls back.

     CLOSE - ETHAN

     He can't fire, lower the hammer.

                                ETHAN
                We've got 19 hours and 57 minutes before
                you start killing anybody.  I'll get 
                Bellerophon into your system by then.
                Just stay alive.  I'm not gonna lose you.

     Ethan runs from the cover of the tanks toward the exploded wall
     once in the open, he exchanges direct gunfire with Ambrose's
     team, wounding a couple men.  He reaches the wall and dives thru,
     camera with him as he drops 25 stories, the sound of gunfire in
     the air all around him.

     Less than a hundred feet from the ground a small dark chute
     deploys and Ethan is lost from view beneath it.

     PANNING SHOT - PAINTINGS (INT. CULTURAL ARTIFACT CENTER)

     of Aborigine paintings, eerie patterns made of man and nature
     phantasmagorical, like the patterns that form under the eyelids
     shortly before sleep.  B.G. the haunting notes of didgeridoo
     insure they're not being overheard.

                                SWANBECK
                        (reading the paintings titles)
                'Dreaming of Birds and Flying Fox,'
                'Bushfire Dreaming,'  'Wind Dreaming,' --
                oddly appropriate -

     Swanbeck breaks off and turns to a somewhat battered and battle
     weary Ethan:

                                SWANBECK (cont'd)
                - since it appears that Chimera, the
                mother of all nightmares is on the loose
                somewhere around here - is there any way
                this disaster can be viewed as a qualified
                one?

                                ETHAN
                        (tight-lipped)
                Not yet.  We did manage to pull any
                sensitive equipment and material out of
                our safehouse wreckage.

                                SWANBECK
                We could lock down passport control and
                all ports of authority, but that won't
                stop Ambrose, and beyond him, we don't
                know who else we're looking for -- all 
                terrorist bank accounts of which we're
                aware are stable.  No deposits, no
                withdrawals.  Therefore no suspects.

                                ETHAN
                We think we've got our finger on the 
                buyer.

                                SWANBECK
                Do you?  Even assuming you're able to
                prevent Ambrose selling Chimera, you've
                now got an additional problem.  You
                destroyed all of Chimera at Biocyte.  If
                Ambrose is going to sell Chimera now,
                he'll have to do it by taking a pint or so
                of Miss Hall's blood to market.

                                ETHAN
                Yes, I believe that's right.

                                SWANBECK
                But that leaves another seven or eight
                pints of Chimera.

                                ETHAN
                You mean that leaves Miss Hall.

                                SWANBECK
                Yes, I believe that's right.  Now my
                understanding is that 20 hours after
                exposure, the victim becomes infectious.
                Highly infectious.

     Ethan glances at his chronometer.  Swanbeck sees it.

                                SWANBECK (CONT'D)
                You noted the time of exposure?

     Ethan nods.

                                SWANBECK (CONT'D)
                - good.  Then if you manage to get hold of
                Ambrose, and obtain what he's got, you've
                got -
                        (glancing at the chronometer)
                - 8 hours 57 minutes and twenty-three
                seconds to destroy the largest remaining
                source of Chimera on earth.

                                ETHAN
                She sacrificed herself..

                                SWANBECK
                Brave girl.  If you can get hold of
                Bellerophon with the time limit, you may
                spare her the ultimate sacrifice.  But in
                either case you've got less than nine
                hours to kill her or cure her.  After that
                it's out of our hands and a matter of
                worldwide material law.  And Hunt.  However
                you obtain it, we want you to preserve a
                sample of Chimera.  Bring it back alive.

     Ethan's staring at Swanbeck.

                                SWANBECK (CONT'D)
                Something else?

                                ETHAN
                Aren't you even curious?  About why she
                did it?

                                SWANBECK
                No.  I can't afford to be curious.  And
                neither can you, Hunt..

     As the eerie wail of the didgeridoo seems to mount in volume and
     intensity, the overcast sky filtering into the loft seems
     particularly oppressive.  Ethan's up against it and he knows it.

     A VIEW OF SYDNEY

     from harbors to skyline in all its sunlight splendor.

     Nyah sits for a moment, looking steadily at Ambrose.  Ambrose pats
     the cannister he's carrying.

                                AMBROSE
                Feel like pleading for your life?

                                NYAH
                        (with an edge)
                Not as much as you feel like hearing it.

     Ambrose slaps her.  With scarcely a flicker of hesitation she
     slaps him back.

                                AMBROSE
                God damn it, Nyah!  Why did you do it?  Why
                did you save that bastard?

                                NYAH
                If it'll make you feel any better I won't
                do it again.

     It doesn't.  Full of pain and rage, he gets out of the car.

                                AMBROSE
                If it'll make you feel any better, you're
                going to take a lot of Aussies with you
                and make me a lot of money.

                                NYAH
                What are you talking about?

                                AMBROSE
                In just a few hours you can be assured of
                going down in history as the typhoid Mary
                of Oz.  G'day.

     A nameless guard from Michael's car idling nearby gets into the
     back seat with Nyah.  Ambrose shuts the car door in Nyah's face,
     gets in Michael's car takes off.

     EXT/INT - IMF HELICOPTER - BLUFF

                                ETHAN
                Luther?..Luther.

     Luther drops a tiny part into his computer board and, as he tries
     to fish it out with the aid of a magnifying glass:

                                LUTHER
                Ethan, I keep telling you there's not a 
                chance of locating Nyah til I access the
                satellite and there's not a chance of
                doing that til I get this thing booted up
                and running!  How much time does she have left?

                                ETHAN
                Ninety-seven minutes, twenty-seven
                seconds.

                                BILLY
                Before we kill her or cure her..

                                LUTHER
                Right.

                                ETHAN
                Wrong.  All we've got to worry about is
                Ambrose.  Nyah will take care of Nyah.

                                BILLY
                What are you talking about?

                                ETHAN
                Unless we dose her with Bellerophon on the
                next ninety-seven minutes, Nyah will kill
                herself.  So, first things, first.
                Swanbeck said there's no cash movement
                from any monitored terrorist accounts.

     EXT - BEAR ISLAND CAR PARK

     McCloy's black limousine is in the car park.

                                ETHAN'S VOICE
                Confirms what Ambrose is gonna do -

     INT - TUNNEL - BEAR ISLAND

     Barrels of toxic materials line the walls, as an armed guard 
     patrols the corridor, leading into the main chamber, where we
     follow McCloy into

     INT - SLABHOUSE

     McCloy enters and begins pacing.

                                ETHAN'S VOICE (CONT'D)
                - who he's doing it with, and where he's
                gonna do it.

     EXT - MOTORCYCLE AND LINE OF VEHICLES (DAY)

     speed along an isolated road in close formation before turning
     onto a side road, revealed as leading to a bridge across a small
     strip of water to a small island.

     EXT - BEAR ISLAND - LANDWARD SIDE (DAY)

     As the cycles and vehicles cross the bridge and approach the
     front gate, the camera swings around the side of the island
     establishing the geography and the six cannon emplacements
     before coming to a stop on

     EXT - BEAR ISLAND - SEAWARD CLIFF - ETHAN

     scaling the seaward side of the island with minimal gear
			
     EXT/INT - IMF HELICOPTER - BLUFF

     resting like a giant locust, half hidden by a cluster of trees on
     the bluff overlooking Bear Island.

     Billy's at the controls, with binoculars, maintaining
     surveillance of the island and environs.

     In the back, Luther is at Work on his GPS computer.

                                BILLY'S VOICE
                Ethan's out from under the bridge and on
                the south-east face..

     EXT - CLIFF/VIEW OF TUNNEL

     Ethan climbs the side of the cliff.        

                                BILLY'S VOICE
                Ethan, Ambrose and his tem have
                over the bridge -

                                ETHAN
                Copy that.

     Ethan reaches the clifftop and sees armed guards patrolling.

                                BILLY'S VOICE
                You all right, mate?  From here it looks
                like very security.  What's it look like 
                like from there?

                                ETHAN
                Risky.

     He's over the top and moves swiftly to cover.

     Ethan surprises and kills a perimeter guard, then runs to a
     length of grating and lifts one of the panels.

     Ethan climbs down through the grating in the roof of the tunnel.
     Using a bar to swing down, he breaks a second guard's neck and
     drops to the floor.
        
     EXT - BEAR ISLAND - ENTRANCE (DAY)

     Ambrose and team drive through the entry gate -- passing its
     BIOCYTE PHARMACEUTICALS sign and various no-nonsense warnings of
     'No Trespassing,' etc. -- before Biocyte security guards close it
     behind them.

     INT - TUNNEL - NEAR THE GRATING

                                ETHAN
                Breached the structure at the ten o'clock
                grating.  In the tunnel moving toward the
                target.

     Ethan begins heading down the tunnel.

     INT - SLABHOUSE BUILDING

     Ambrose and team enter, where McCloy and his CHEMIST and
     ACCOUNTANT are waiting.  As Stamp stands back, observing, and
     Wallis sets up a laptop, Ambrose walks up to a refectory-like
     table and stands opposite McCloy.  Ambrose reaches into his coat
     and puts two cannisters on the table in front of McCloy.  McCloy's
     chemist picks up the cannisters and inserts them into two
     chambers connected to his microscope.

                                CHEMIST
                It's a DNA match.  The blood's loaded with
                Chimera.

     An insert of the microscope plate shows the two samples, as
     Bellerophen destroys Chimera.

     The chemist presses a button on the chamber and there's a heat
     flash.  The chamber red light moves to green, and there's a 
     mechanical voice: 'Substance destroyed.'

                                CHEMIST (cont'd)
                And they certainly have Bellerophen.

     The Kev cannister is out on the table.

                                MCCLOY
                Well, then.  You've got both the virus and
                the anti-virus, Chimera and Bellerophen.
                Which means I've thirty million for
                you

     Ambrose doesn't respond.

                                MCCLOY (cont'd)
                That's all the cash I can come up with

                                AMBROSE
                Not exactly.  Wallis?

                                WALLIS
                        (off Biocyte figures on laptop)
                More like two-two point two million.

                                AMBROSE
                In any case we don't want your cash.

                                MCCLOY
                Then what do you want?

     Ambrose picks up a mobile phone and dials.

                                AMBROSE
                Stock, Mr. McCloy.  Stock options, to be a
                little more precise..
                        (into the phone)
                - cut her loose..right in the center of
                town..the more crowded the better..
                        (punching off, to McCloy)
                How quickly can you manufacture more of
                the antivirus.

     INT - TUNNEL - CAVITY IN THE WALL

     As he moves along the tunnel, Ethan suddenly flattens himself
     against a wall as he receives a transmission from Luther.
        
                                LUTHER'S VOICE
                Ethan, just picked up an Ambrose call -
                Nyah's been dropped off.  I think she's
                alive.

                                ETHAN
                Where is she?

     EXT - HELICOPTER - BLUFF

                                LUTHER
                Somewhere in Sydney.

     INT - TUNNEL - CAVITY IN THE WALL

     Ethan hears something and ducks into a nearby cavity in the
     tunnel wall.  As a guard approaches, Ethan steps out of the
     cavity and knocks the guard out, then throws him into the
     opposite wall.

                                LUTHER'S VOICE
                Ethan?  Do you copy?

                                ETHAN'S VOICE
                'Somewhere in Sydney?'  Care to harden the
                target?

                                LUTHER'S VOICE
                Can't.  Until I can get the GPS up on our
                computer..it's still down..

                                ETHAN
                The clock is ticking..

     Back to the matter at hand, Ethan completes the move on the 
     guard and knocks him out.

     INT - SLABHOUSE

                                MCCLOY
                Bellerophen?  No time at all once I've got it.

                                AMBROSE
                Good.  Biocyte stock is just a week or two
                away from going through the roof.

                                MCCLOY
                        (alarmed)
                What are you talking about?

                                AMBROSE
                An outbreak of Chimera.

                                MCCLOY
                Where?

                                AMBROSE
                In downtown Sydney for a start.

     McCloy is stunned.

                                AMBROSE (cont'd)
                You create the supply, Mr. McCloy, we've
                just created the demand.  Three million                
                people in Sydney and 17 million people in
                Australia are going to need Bellerophen
                within a matter of days..not to mention
                the rest of the world..

     INT - TUNNEL - OPEN AREA - ETHAN'S FEET

     stealthily approach a couple dozen jittery pigeons, cooing
     and pecking.  The intensity of their noise-making increases
     as Ethan reaches them.

     INT - TUNNEL - OUTSIDE OF THE SLABHOUSE ROOM DOORS

     Hearing the disruption of the pigeons, one of Ambrose's
     guards leaves his post at the double doors and head the 
     tunnel toward the birds to investigate.

     INT - TUNNEL - OPEN AREA

     Ambrose's guard draws his gun and continues approaching the
     pigeons.  Before the guard can see him, Ethan runs forward, and
     sends the pigeons into scattered flight, blinding the guard.
     Ethan jumps into a back flip and double kicks -- first knocking
     away the guard's gun and then knocking him out and flat on his
     back.  Ethan continues his flip and lands right back on his feet.

     INT - SLABHOUSE

                                AMBROSE
                -- now here's the way it's going to
                work..Wallis, the shares outstanding are..

                                WALLIS
                Ninety-three point four million.

                                AMBROSE 
                Which means, Mr. McCloy, we have to get
                our hands on four hundred and eighty
                thousand options.  We'll borrow your
                thirty million to buy those options.  Your
                stock's never sold above thirty-one
                dollars a share.  We'll agree to buy at
                fifty.  
			
                                AMBROSE (cont'd)
                When your stock goes north of two hundred, 
                and it will, those options will be worth 
                billions.  We can borrow whatever we need 
                to buy the 48,000,000 shares, fifty-one 
                percent of Biocyte.

                                MCCLOY
                Outrageous.  I won't let you take control
                of my company.

                                AMBROSE 
                Sit down.  You'll be a billionaire.  Better
                than being broke.  I've got terrorists and
                other pharmaceutical companies standing in
                line.  Ball's in your court, Mr. McCloy.

     INT - TUNNEL - OUTSIDE THE SLABHOUSE ROOM DOORS

     Ethan pulls a can of explosive material form his pack.  He
     rolls it towards the double doors, and it stops just before
     reaching them.  Then, pointing his gun to the ceiling, he 
     fires into the air.

     INT - SLABHOUSE ROOM - AMBROSE

     hears a noise and looks to Stamp, who heard it as well.
     Stamp nods to two guards to check it out.  They head across
     the room to the double doors.

     INT - TUNNEL - OUTSIDE THE SLABHOUSE ROOM DOORS - ETHAN

     waits for the right moment before raising his and firing
     at the can of explosives.  Just as it ignites, the guards
     open the doors and are blown back by force of the explosion.

     INT - SLABHOUSE ROOM - AMBROSE

     reacts and turns toward the explosion.  Amidst the flames and        
     debris, a single white dove comes flying into the room.  And
     beyond it, Ambrose can see Ethan Hunt in silhouette walking
     slowly past the doorway.

                                AMBROSE
                Run that bastard down.

     Orders are shouted, and guards, along with Stamp, hotfoot it down
     the tunnel-corridor in the direction of the explosion.

     INT - TUNNEL - STAMP AND GUARDS

     run down the tunnel.  The guards move commando-style, directed
     by Stamp's hand signals.

     INT - SLABHOUSE - MCCLOY AND AMBROSE

     Ambrose loads his gun and drags the tip of the barrel along the
     table.

                                AMBROSE
                We're running short on time, Mr. McCloy.
                We've got to conclude our business.

     McCloy pauses only a moment before nodding to his accountant.

                                MCCLOY
                Yes, start the transfer.

     The accountant begins working on his laptop.

                                AMBROSE
                        (to Wallis)
                Follow it.  Let me know.

     INT - TUNNEL - STAMP AND GUARDS

     pass a couple of doorways.  A pigeon flies past Stamp's face and
     he stops.  As he turn, Ethan Lowers himself from a hiding place
     in the ceiling.  Stamp and Ethan pull their guns on one another.
     They're in a face-off until they both agree to drop their guns,
     but Stamp catches his in mid-air and points it back at Ethan.

                                ETHAN
                You broke our deal.

                                STAMP
                You're too trusting.  Raise your hands
                slowly.

     As Ethan raises his hands, he pulls the pin on a grenade and then
     kicks it between Stamp's legs.  The handle flies off:  It's live.
     When Stamp looks down in surprise at the grenade, Ethan kicks out
     his gun.

     Trying to escape the grenade, Stamp smashes into Ethan and seems
     to have hit him in the jaw.  Both hit the ground as the grenade
     explodes, with Stamp appearing to have the upper hand.

     INT - SLABHOUSE

     As everyone waits for the transfer to complete, the grenade
     explodes out in the tunnel.  McCloy and his accountant freeze
     with alarm as a sprinkling of dust settles on the room.

                                AMBROSE
                        (to the accountant)
                Keep it going.

                                STAMP'S VOICE
                Sean, this rat's reached the end of the
                maze.

                                AMBROSE
                        (into walkie-talkie)
                Is he alive?

                                STAMP'S VOICE
                More or less.

                                AMBROSE
                Bring him to me.

     INT - HELICOPTER - BILLY AND LUTHER

     Luther has the GPS computer starting to access the satellite.

                                BILLY
                        (nervously)
                We're due to take off.

                                LUTHER
                Not for seven more minutes.

     INT - SLABHOUSE - WALLIS

     checking his computer screen, which shows the transfer has
     finished successfully.

                                WALLIS
                Sean.  Transfer complete.

     Stamp drags Ethan in, arms pinned with heavy tape.  Stamp
     Ethan look grimy as sandbags after a busy day of tunneling.

     Ambrose rises to examine his prize.

                                MCCLOY
                        (apprehensive)
                What exactly do you intend to do with him?

     Ambrose walks behind Ethan and kicks his knees out from under
     him.  Ethan falls to the floor.

     INT - HELICOPTER - BILLY AND LUTHER

                                LUTHER
                Ethan?  Ethan?  Do you copy?

     Luther hears nothing in response but while noise.  He looks to
     Billy and indicates there's no answer.

                                ETHAN
                Well, mate, maybe this is one of those
                times we shouldn't follow orders.

     EXT - HELICOPTER (DAY)

     the rotor blades turn over.

     INT - SLABHOUSE BUILDING (DAY)

                                AMBROSE
                        (to Ethan)
                What have you got to say for yourself.
                Hunt?  Any last words?

     Ethan appears as if he wants to respond, but can't.  Ambrose
     kicks him again.

                                AMBROSE (cont'd)
                Stop mumbling.

                                STAMP
                Afraid he's got no choice.  I believe I
                broke his jaw.

                                AMBROSE
                Hugh, I'm impressed..

     Ambrose has picked up a pair of Berettas, and is proceeding to
     load both full seventeen round clips.

                                MCCLOY
                        (anxiety mounting)
                What do you intend to do?

     Ambrose favors McCloy with a glance of genial exacerbation.

                                AMBROSE
                You needn't watch.

     FULL SHOT - HELICOPTER (DAY)

     rising off the golf green, and banking toward the island.

     INT - SLABHOUSE (DAY)

     Ambrose standing before Hunt with a pair of fully loaded
     Berettas.  The sound of the helicopter grows.

                                AMBROSE
                - right.  We don't have a lot of time,
                Hunt.  whatever you've got to say, say it
                now.

     Ethan indeed makes some considerable effort to speak but can only
     manage a few guttural, progressively desperate sounds which
     continue as:
        

                                AMBROSE (cont'd)
                Sorry mate, I can't understand a bloody
                word.  How about giving us a big smile to
                remember you by?
                        (hearing the helicopter)
                No?  Well, then.  This is what's known as
                getting your gun off.

     With that Ambrose empties thirty four rounds from the two
     Berettas into Ethan whose body jerks crazily on the floor.
     McCloy nearly faints, and Ambrose laughs at his squeamishness
     until something on Ethan's body catches his eye: the top of the
     little finger on the right hand is bleeding.  Ambrose grabs
     Ethan's face, and rips off a latex mask: revealing Stamp, eyes
     wide open and thoroughly lifeless.  His jaw, under the mask had
     been taped carefully close with the same heavy tape Ethan has
     used to mount the drain-pipe shotgun on the tunnel wall.

                                AMBROSE (cont'd)
                Bloody hell!

     He looks around, but Stamp is gone.  So is the cannister and
     kevlar vest that had been on the table moments before.

     EXT - BEAR ISLAND

     Ethan's on the motorcycle, heading toward the gates, which a pair
     of security guards are frantically trying to close.

     Billy and Luther in the copter are over the island, and bank so
     Luther can fire a grenade launcher and blow the back of Ambrose's
     boat.

     The guards close the gate, Ethan runs the motorcycle up the
     hillock and jumps the gate, over onto the bridge.  Ambrose follows
     in the SUV, crashing thru the gate.

     They race across the bridge and the road, onto the huge
     greensward opposite to and similar in shape to Bare Island.
     There, with the helicopter hovering, Ambrose manages to corner
     Ethan and after they expend whatever ammunition their weapons
     hold, they move into each other bare handed and engage in
     ferocious, no-holds-barred combat, the helicopter hovering low
     enough to keep away whatever's left of Ambrose's henchmen, the
     chopper's downdraft hitting them and flattening the grass around
     them.  Ethan prevails.

     A SPECTACULAR VIEW OF SYDNEY

     on bluffs overlooking the city.  Camera moves slowly to the top
     of the bluff.

     EXT/INT - IMF HELICOPTER (DAY)

     With Billy flying and Luther at the door, machine gun in
     hand, the copter nears the Bare Island gun pit and Ethan.

     EXT - BEAR ISLAND GUN PIT - ETHAN

     runs into the central 'hole' area, guns in both hands and
     wearing the kevlar vest.  He runs toward the walled edge of 
     the enclosure and jumps.  As he pulls himself up the top of
     the wall, he sees the IMF helicopter approaching.

     A gunman appears from the tunnel entrance and opens fire, the
     bullets exploding into the wall around Ethan, who jumps out
     of the way to avoid them.

     EXT/INT - IMF HELICOPTER

     is under fire as well, bullets spraying the windshield,
     driving Luther back inside and causing Billy to turn the
     chopper around.

                                BILLY
                Man at your six.

     EXT - BEAR ISLAND GUN PIT - ETHAN

     who rolls and returns fire at the gunman.  Ethan first hits
     the gunman in the leg, and then shoots and explodes the
     canisters behind the gunman, killing him.

                                ETHAN
                        (to Billy)
                The field of fire is too heavy.  Back off
                and pinpoint their positions.

     BEAR ISLAND HILL - MOTORCYCLE

     bearing down on him as he stands up.  Ethan just manages to
     dive out of its path before a second motorcycle comes up over
     the hill.  Ethan flips backwards and fires his pistol,
     shooting the second cyclist off his bike.

     The motorcycle flies over Ethan, who runs after it and jumps
     on, revving the throttle and taking off.

     BEAR ISLAND - PARKING AREA - AMBROSE

     deploys some of his men via walkie-talkie while others
     scramble into their cars.

                                AMBROSE
                        (into walkie-talkie)
                Hunt's heading for the bridge.  Coming in
                at twelve o'clock high.

     BEAR ISLAND BRIDGE

     A Gold Falcon with several of Ambrose's men inside enters the
     bridge from the mainland and speeds toward the island.

     EXT - BEAR ISLAND COMPLEX

     Ambrose's men exit the complex and get into their cars.

     BEAR ISLAND HILL - ETHAN

     crests a hill aboard the cycle, the IMF chopper in b.g.

                                ETHAN
                Clear that bridge for me.

                                LUTHER' VOICE
                Roger that.

                                BILLY'S VOICE
                They're tracking you on the left, Ethan.
                Prepare for some fire.

     BEAR ISLAND ROADWAY

     Michael's SUV and Wallis' sedan speed along as a gunman from the
     SUV fires on Ethan up the hill, spraying bullets around him.

     BEAR ISLAND BRIDGE - GOLD FALCON

     approaches the island.  Luther fires his grenade launcher.  It
     hits the Falcon's trunk, lifting its back wheel off the ground,
     but the Falcon keeps coming, its trunk ablaze.  Luther reloads as
     a gunman leans out the window, firing up at Ethan on the hill.

     BEAR ISLAND HILL - ETHAN

     lays on the cycle's throttle, accelerates down the hill and
     propels the bike into the air and off the island, just as
        
     EXT - IMF HELICOPTER - LUTHER

     again fires his grenade launcher, this time at the front of the
        
     BEAR ISLAND BRIDGE - GOLD FALCON

     on the bridge.  The grenade explodes at the front of the car
     and hurls the Falcon into the air and off the bridge.

     BEAR ISLAND - HILL/BRIDGE - ETHAN

     is in mid-air on the cycle, heading down toward the bridge.  Just
     as he lands, the Gold Falcon flies off the bridge, and Ethan
     speeds through the flames and off onto the mainland.

     BEAR ISLAND - BRIDGE

     Michael's SUV arrives and tears through the gate and flames,
     followed by Wallis' sedan and then Ambrose, riding a motorcycle.

     ROAD LEADING FROM BRIDGE - ETHAN

     races up the road to find a white Falcon approaching.

     The IMF chopper arrives and gunfire's exchanged.  Luther takes a
     hit in the shoulder and drops his gun as the chopper banks away.

     INT - HELICOPTER - LUTHER

     Luther grips his shoulder in pain and falls back into his seat,
     jarring the GPS computer.  It responds by beeping and coming to
     life.  Nyah's yellow dot pops up on the screen.

                                GPS COMPUTER
                The target is located.

                                LUTHER
                Ethan, the computer's up.  I've got Nyah.
                She's moved out of the city.

                                ETHAN
                Luther, say again.

                                LUTHER
                She's on the North Head Bluff - 
                approaching the cliffs.  One klick away.

     EXT - ROADWAY - ETHAN

                                ETHAN
                        (over increasing static)
                Copy.  She's only got twenty-eight minutes
                left.  Track ahead and pick her up.

     INT - IMF HELICOPTER 

     Luther bands his shoulder wound and monitors his GPS laptop.

                                LUTHER
                We won't be able to cover you.

     EXT - ROADWAY - ETHAN

     slightly slows the bike to concentrate over the static.

                                ETHAN
                You're breaking up.  Track ahead and pick her 
                up.  You've got me on GPS.  Bring her to me.

     Ethan pulls out and throws away the earpiece.

     INT - IMF HELICOPTER

                                LUTHER
                Billy, North Head.  Haul ass.

     EXT - ROADWAY

     Ethan heads downhill as the SUV approaches on an adjacent road.
     He pulls out in front of it, immediately drawing fire.  Without
     slowing, Ethan drops to the side his cycle for cover.

     INT - IMF HELICOPTER - LUTHER

     watches the GPS laptop as the chopper speeds over Sydney.

     EXT - ROADWAY - ETHAN AND WALLIS' SEDAN

     Wallis' sedan appears from an adjoining road and pulls in behind
     Ethan, who climbs back aboard his cycle.  Cut off, the SUV turns
     onto a side road to intercept Ethan.

                                WALLIS
                Get him.

                                ULRICH
                I can't get a good shot.

     Before an intersection, Ethan both revs and brakes, spinning the
     bike and creating a smoke screen.  Wallis' car enters the smoke.

                                ULRICH (cont'd)
                I can't see him, mate.  Slow down!

                                WALLIS
                Shut up.  I know what I'm doing.

     Wallis breaks hard, but not hard enough:  he stops just in the
     path of an oncoming 18-wheeler.  His car's demolished.

     EXT - ROADWAY - ETHAN AND SUV

     Ethan pulls out of the smoke as the SUV bursts out of the scrub
     behind him, striking the rear of the cycle.  Ethan puts his bike 
     into a spin and pulls his gun, ending up alongside the SUV
     passenger window.  He fires through the window, shooting both
     Michael and the bodyguard.

     The SUV veers off, crashing into a line of parked cars.  It hits
     the first car and flips up and over, landing upside down on
     several more parked cars.  Ethan speeds off on his smoking cycle.
     Ambrose arrives and then takes a side road.

     INT - IMF HELICOPTER - LUTHER

     working on his GPS laptop.  The range -- ie, the distance from
     the moving copter to the yellow dot, Nyah, on the edge of the
     screen -- is reduced to about two kilometers.
                                
                                LUTHER
                        (to Billy)
                Range is two kay.
                                
                                BILLY
                I hope there's a place to land.

     Luther looks up from the screen to see the bluff of North Head at
     the entrance to Sydney's harbor.

     EXT - THREE-LINED ROADWAY - ETHAN

     tearing down the road, when suddenly from a side trail Ambrose
     pulls out behind him and begins firing.  Ethan weaves to avoid
     Ambrose's fire and passes a car, pulling in front of it for
     cover.  The car skids, forcing Ambrose to veer around it.

     FROM COPTER TO GROUND (MOVING)

     rapidly approaching the North Head bluff.

                                BILLY
                There she is.  I got visual.

                                LUTHER
                We're down to seven minutes 23 seconds..

     HIGH ANGLE - NORTH HEAD

     moving up behind Nyah who is walking purposefully to the edge of
     the bluff and a precipitous drop to rocks and surf a hundred and 
     fifty feet below.

     Camera drops to Nyah's shoulder level and moves with her to the
     bluff's edge.  As she's just a few steps away from stepping
     off, there's a roar and the helicopter rises into the shot,
     before her wild-eyed Billy gesturing, 'Stop!  Stop!' to Nyah.

     EXT - ROADWAY

     Ethan passes narrowly between a car and oncoming truck.  Ambrose
     follows as soon as the truck clears.  Ethan fires backward using 
     his side-view mirror to aim, exploding Ambrose's windscreen.
     Ambrose skids until his wheel clips a rock, knocking him upright.

     Ethan turns into a side road and speeds through open scrub.  Back
     on the main road, Ambrose roars off to intercept Ethan.

     EXT - CLIFFTOP - ROCK LEDGE

     On a clifftop clearing, Ethan races along as Ambrose moves to cut
     him off.  They head toward one another.

                                LUTHER'S VOICE
                Ethan, we've got her.  Tracking to you now.
                We're reading 5 minutes 19 seconds.

     EXT - CLIFFTOP - CLEARING

     Ethan and Ambrose round a bend and face one another.  Without
     hesitating, they charge towards each other.  As they near one
     another, each leaps forward and off his bike, and they collide
     hard in mid-air.  They fall to the ground fighting as their bikes
     skid and Ethan's explodes, raining debris upon them.

     Ethan and Ambrose rush towards one another.  Ethan flips Ambrose
     to the ground.  Ambrose pulls a gun from his ankle holster.  As
     Ethan knocks it away, he loses his own gun and they both fall off
     a 30-foot cliff.

     INT - IMF HELICOPTER

     at top speed over Sydney.  Nyah appears weak and shivers.

                                LUTHER
                        (to Billy)
                Bearing two one zero.  About 3 klicks.
                        (into microphone)
                Ethan, we're moments away..

     EXT - CLIFFTOP - CLEARING - FIGHT

     Ethan and Ambrose rise from the fall.  Ethan jumps up and sweeps
     Ambrose, dropping him to the ground.  Ethan begins strangling
     Ambrose but gets knocked off, and when they both stand, Ambrose
     gets Ethan in a choke hold.

     Ambrose hits him and grabs a rock and hits Ethan in the
     midsection and the face.  Ethan kicks it out of his hand and
     connects with several punches, knocking Ambrose to the ground.

     Kneeling, Ambrose pulls a knife from a boot holster and cuts
     Ethan across the back and face.  Ambrose dives on Ethan and the
     knife is poised above Ethan's eye before Ethan grabs the knife
     and clears, holding it out toward Ambrose.

                                AMBROSE
                Go ahead.  Use it Hunt.  It's not a bad
                way to go.  A lot better than the way that
                bitch is going to die.

     Ambrose swings again and misses, and Ethan delivers a series of
     kicks, leaving Ambrose stunned and barely standing.  Ethan steps
     back, and with a running start, strikes Ambrose with a leaping
     kick that drops him to the ground and knock the knife out of his
     hand.

     EXT/INT - IMF HELICOPTER - CLIFFTOP

     As they approach in the distance, Billy, Luther and Nyah finally
     gain sight of Ethan in hand-to-hand combat.

     EXT - CLIFFTOP - CLEARING - FIGHT

     Ethan turns and walks away from Ambrose toward the cliff edge.
     The copter lands and Luther runs toward Ethan but pulls up,
     looking over Ethan's shoulder.  Ambrose has a gun aimed at        
     Ethan's back.

                                AMBROSE
                Hunt.  You should have killed me.

     Near Hunt's feet is his own gun, obscured from Ambrose's view by
     dust from the copter.  Ethan tosses the canister to Luther and
     then kicks his gun up out of the dirt and into the air.  He
     catches it, drops down and fires, killing Ambrose.

     EXT/ INT - HELICOPTER ON CLIFFTOP

     Ethan reaches Nyah at the copter.  Inches apart, they can only
     stare silently at one another.

     INT - CULTURAL MUSEUM

     Didgeridoo music.  A child admires a painting.  Swanbeck and Ethan
     face one another.  A long, long pause.  For a moment it appears as
     if Swanbeck has lost awareness of Ethan's presence.

                                SWANBECK
                Sorry, Ethan.  I don't quite know where to
                begin.  Any suggestions?

                                ETHAN
                You'd like me to conduct my own
                debriefing.

                                SWANBECK
                Why not?  You've done just about
                everything else on this operation.

                                ETHAN
                I'd thank you -- but I'm not sure that was
                a compliment.

                                SWANBECK
                Of course it was.  Anyone whose operations
                requires the level of disinformation that
                yours do, is bound to get a little flak
                here and there.  You try flogging the
                stories on CNN I've had to come up with
                about what's been going on around here the
                last few days.  At any rate, it's been
                most instructive -- what they'll swallow,
                or what they'll broadcast with a straight
                face.
                        (picking up a file)
                Miss Hall's blood, it appears, has
                absolutely no elements of the Chimera
                virus.  Not even antibodies.

                                ETHAN
                Yes, I gathered as much.

                                SWANBECK
                And the only other remaining sample was in
                the canister you recover from Ambrose.

                                ETHAN
                Yes.

                                SWANBECK
                And that appears to have been destroyed.
                It also contained the anti-virus,
                Bellerophon.

                                ETHAN
                Well, Bellerophon, it turns out, was only
                really effective against Chimera.

                                SWANBECK
                But you were under specific instructions
                to bring back a living sample of the
                Chimera virus.  I'd be very interested to
                know how, after you'd managed its recovery
                intact, it subsequently got destroyed.

                                ETHAN
                By fire.  That's the best way, really.


                                SWANBECK
                So you didn't fail mission, you simply
                changed it.

     Ethan doesn't respond.

                                SWANBECK (cont'd)
                It's no longer enough for you to execute
                and implement IMF policy, you now wish to
                go in the business of creating it?

                                ETHAN
                No, I don't.  But in this case -

                                SWANBECK
                In this case, it wasn't a bad idea.  In
                face, it was a pretty damn good idea.
                Just don't make a habit of it.  And, as for
                Ms. Hall, in light of her efforts, her
                criminal records will certainly be
                expunged.  I'm assuming you approve.

                                ETHAN
                I do.

                                SWANBECK
                Where is she now, by the way?  Do you
                know?

                                ETHAN
                I don't.  No exactly.

                                SWANBECK
                Well, Hunt, what are your plans?

                                ETHAN
                Not sure.  Some sort of vacation.  I'll
                let you know where I'm going.

                                SWANBECK
                Oh, you don't have to do that. Wouldn't 
                be a vacation if you did.

     Ethan and Swanbeck exchange one final, knowing glance.

                                SKY NEWSCASTER
                This incident in the wake of rumors
                suddenly surfacing about Mr. McCloy and 
                Biocyte's financial difficulties --
                including criminal allegations of insider 
                trading, embezzlement, conspiracy to
                commit fraud, and stock parking -- have,
                understandably, sent stock prices of the
                pharmaceutical company plummeting.

     EXT - SYDNEY (DAY)

     Ethan emerges to a very crowded street.  Billy and Luther are
     waiting.  Both look to Ethan.

                                LUTHER
                        (worried)
                So what did he say?

                                ETHAN
                Good job.  And thanks.

                                BILLY
                        (incredulous)
                That's it?  That's it? That's it?

                                LUTHER
                        (dryly, looking at Billy)
                And the check's in the mall.

                                BILLY
                Right.  Just remember, mates.  Billy
                Baird's the name.  Anything you need to
                get, move or watch, I'm your man.

     And Billy's gone.  Ethan and Luther remain alone, both reluctant
     to say anything, both reluctant to leave.

     One quick bear hug, then:

                                LUTHER
                Always nice hearing from you man.  Stay in 
                touch..

     And Luther's off.  Ethan looks after him, a bit wistfully.  Then,
     curiously tentative he moves off into the crowd.  After a half-
     dozen steps, something catches his eyes.  He stops.

     One quick bear hug, then:

                                NYAH
                        (a tad wary)
                Do you know me?

     NYAH

     is inches from him.  Without batting an eye.


                                ETHAN
                No.  Should I?

                                NYAH
                No.  You just looked as if you did.

                                ETHAN
                No...

     She wraps her arms around him and kisses him with considerable
     conviction.

                                ETHAN (cont'd)
                ...just as if I'd like to.

                                NYAH
                Oh.  Well..

     He kisses her with a conviction that is more than a match for
     hers.

                                NYAH (cont'd)
                ..I think that can be arranged.

     Looks around at the swirling crowd:

                                ETHAN
                Let's get lost.

     And in a moment they've vanished from the frame and into the
     crowd.  Camera begins to pull back, the bustling crowd ever
     filling the frame - and in the distance, perhaps, just a splash
     of a bouquet of flowers can be seen, appearing to bounce along on
     its own, the rising beat of the MI theme:

     BEGIN CREDITS:  IMF II - CHIMERA

GLADIATOR


                                   by

                            David Franzoni


                      Revised by John Logan




                                                        SECOND DRAFT

                                                        October 22,
1998




              "While stands the Colosseum, Rome shall stand.
              When falls the Colosseum, Rome shall fall.
              And when Rome falls -- the World."

                                                Byron



FADE IN:

EXT.   FOREST - DAY
Germania.   The far reaches of the Roman Empire.

Winter 180 A.D.

Incongruously enough, the first sound we hear is a
beautiful tenor voice. Singing. A boy's voice.

CREDITS as we hear the haunting song float through dense
forests. We finally come to a rough, muddy road slashing
through the forest. On the road a GERMAN PEASANT FATHER
is herding along three sickly looking cows. His two SONS
are with him. His youngest son sits on one of the cows
and sings a soft, plaintive song.

They become aware of another sound behind them on the road
-- the creak of wood, the slap of metal on leather. The
Father immediately leads his cattle and his sons off the
road. They stand-still, eyes down: the familiar posture
of subjugated peoples throughout history.

A wagon train rumbles past them. Three ornate wagons
followed by a mounted cohort of fifty heavily-armed
PRAETORIAN GUARDS.

The young boy dares to glance up at the passing Romans.
His eyes burn with hatred.

INT.   WAGON - DAY

Mist momentarily obscures a man's face. Frozen breath.
The man is in his 20's, imperious and handsome. He is
swathed in fur, only his face exposed. He is COMMODUS.

He glances up.

                                   COMMODUS
              Do you think he's really dying?

The woman across from him returns his gaze evenly. She is
slightly older, beautiful and patrician. A formidable
woman.

She is LUCILLA.

                                   LUCILLA
              He's been dying for ten years.

                                   COMMODUS
              I think he's really dying this time.

A beat.   Their breath turns instantly to mist.
                                   COMMODUS
              He has to be bled every night now.

                                   LUCILLA
              How do you know that?

                                   COMMODUS
              I've been so informed.

She arches an eyebrow.

                                   COMMODUS
              If he weren't really dying he
              wouldn't have sent for us.

                                   LUCILLA
                     (a smile)
              Maybe he just misses us.

                                  COMMODUS
              And the Senators. He wouldn't have
              summoned them if --

                                   LUCILLA
              Peace, Commodus. After two weeks on
              the road your incessant scheming is
              hurting my head.

A beat.

                                   COMMODUS
              The first thing I shall do is honor
              him with games worthy of his
              majesty.

                                   LUCILLA
              The first thing I shall do is have a
              hot bath.

The wagon rumbles to a halt.   Voices are heard outside.

Commodus leaps out...

EXT.   WAGON - OUTPOST - DAY

Three Roman SOLDIERS guard an outpost, a watchtower, on
the roadside.

                                     COMMODUS
              Why have we stopped?
                                   PRAETORIAN GUARD MEMBER
              We're here, sir.

                                   COMMODUS
                     (to Soldier #1)
              Where is my father?

                                   SOLDIER #1
              He's at the front, sir.

                                   COMMODUS
              Is the battle won?

                                    SOLDIER #1
              Don't know, sir.   They've been gone
              for eight days.

Commodus tosses off his furs -- beneath them he wears a
beautiful set of Lorica Segmentata -- the traditional
formed armor of Rome. He moves to a horse as:

                                   COMMODUS
                     (to Soldier #1)
              My sister wants a bath, take her to
              the camp.
                     (to Soldier #2)
              Take me to my father.

He leaps onto the horse and canters back to the Praetorian
Guard unit.

Soldier #2 climbs on his horse and leads them. Commodus
rides off with most of the Praetorian Guard unit.

Lucilla peeks her head from the wagon. She glances at the
remaining soldiers. Distinctly unpromising.

                                   LUCILLA
                     (dry)
              Civilization at last. Gods preserve
              us.

EXT.   HILL - TWILIGHT

The mighty catapults dwarf the humans. Soldiers from the
elite Felix Regiment -- a legion of the Roman Army -- haul
the monstrous machines up a hill.

The commanding General of the Felix Regiment, MAXIMUS,
walks between two of the catapults. He is a striking and
intense man in his 30's. Like all the soldiers who
surround him, he is caked with mud and exhausted.
He trudges up the hill with his two lieutenants, TITUS and
QUINTUS.

                                  TITUS
             You would do as well to read the
             mind of a rhinoceros.

                                  QUINTUS
             These barbarians would rather drown
             in blood than yield an inch. If I
             didn't hate them so much I would
             admire them.

They have reached the top of the hill. Stunning martial
preparations are underway. The catapults join ten others.
Archers are taking up position. Brutal "Scorpions" --
devices for firing multiple crossbow bolts -- are being
loaded. Soldiers are also loading the catapults with
enormous "Greek fire pots" -- large, round terra cotta
pots.

Maximus and his lieutenants gaze down from the hilltop.
Below them they can see a German encampment.

                                  TITUS
             They simply will not surrender.

A beat as Maximus gazes down at the German position.

                                  MAXIMUS
                    (quietly)
             A people should know when they are
             conquered.

A beat.

                                  MAXIMUS
             At the first signal release the
             catapults. We'll use the cavalry to
             cut off the retreat.

                                  QUINTUS
             General, I don't recommend that.
             Our cavalry might be caught in the
             flames.

                                  MAXIMUS
             I hope not, because I'm going to be
             leading them.

A beat as he gazes down at the enemy.
                                   MAXIMUS
              Why don't they know they're already
              dead?

EXT.   TREES - TWILIGHT

Maximus and Titus are on their horses, the cavalry of two
hundred Felix Regiment warriors surrounds them. Steam
flares from their horses' nostrils. They wait in a thick
stand of trees -- the German position can be seen across a
muddy plain.

A large wolf -- "The Wolf of Rome" -- waits at Maximus'
side.

Maximus nods to an archer. The archer lights the tip of
an arrow and sends it flaming into the night sky.

EXT.   HILLTOP - TWILIGHT

Quintus waits. The catapults are loaded and waiting. So
too the Scorpions. So too the 200 archers of the Felix
Regiment.

He sees the flaming arrow flying up from below.

                                     QUINTUS
              Now!

The mighty catapults are released. The Greek fire pots
arc dramatically through the air. A moment later soldiers
release the Scorpions and hundreds of bolts streak through
the sky. The archers fire a murderous barrage of flaming
arrows.

EXT.   TREES - TWILIGHT

The screaming is almost immediate.

Maximus and his cavalry watch as the fire pots crash down
into the German encampment.

EXT.   GERMAN CAMP - TWILIGHT

The fire pots shatter -- pitch splashes everywhere --
seconds later the bolts and flaming arrows slice down and
ignite the pitch -- FLAME EXPLODES -- it is a hellish,
napalm-like vision -- the conflagration illuminating the
twilight.

The deadly rain of flaming arrows spreads terror through
the German camp --

EXT.   TREES - TWILIGHT

Maximus watches the German camp.

                                   MAXIMUS
                     (to his men)
              Hold steady... steady...

He can see the nightmare destruction of the encampment
continuing -- fire pots and Scorpion bolts and flaming
arrows -- panic in the German encampment.

                                   MAXIMUS
              Steady...

He sees the Germans begin fleeing across the plain. He
quickly raises his sword and whispers a prayer, then turns
to his men:

                                   MAXIMUS
              Brothers -- I salute you! For Rome!

He spurs his horse and races out of the trees to the
plain...

EXT.   PLAIN - BATTLEGROUND - TWILIGHT

Maximus leads the terrifying and relentless cavalry charge
-- Titus at his side -- the Felix Regiment screams out
fearsome war cries as they gallop across the muddy plain
toward the Germans --

Fire pots and flaming arrows are crashing down everywhere
around them --

The cavalry SLAMS into the Germans at full gallop --

It is carnage.

The Felix Regiment warriors slash ruthlessly with short
swords -- slicing a path of sheer destruction through the
Germans -- but the Germans fight with equal brutality --
and the Germans also fight with the desperation of a
hopeless last chance -- they pull and spear Roman soldiers
off horses whenever they can --

Maximus spins his horse and swings his sword with expert
efficiency -- a spear stabs through the neck of his horse
and it immediately collapses forward --
Maximus sails over the horse's head and crashes to the
muddy ground -- he jumps up and is in the midst of the
battle --

The flaming arrows and exploding fire pots create a
ferocious inferno everywhere around the battle -- the
flames silhouetting the fighting --

On the ground, Maximus proves his absolute worth as a
warrior -- he hacks and dodges -- ghastly images of true
ancient warfare -- Maximus' eyes burn with a zealous fire
as he fights for his life --

He finds he is momentarily at a terrible disadvantage --
Germans are surrounding him from all sides -- as he fights
he looks for an advantage -- for his soldiers -- for
anything -- he is doomed --

Then -- an almost mystical image -- Maximus' wolf leaps
through a wall of flame --

"The Wolf of Rome" savages several Germans around Maximus
-- giving him the help he needed.

The wolf and his master fight, side-by-side.

EXT.   HILLTOP - TWILIGHT

We see an old man's face, staring down at the battle. The
face is weather-beaten, ailing. The roaring flames from
the battlefield below flicker in his sad eyes.

MARCUS AURELIUS, the Emperor of Rome, is on a horse. A
metal brace extends from the back of his saddle. He is
strapped to the brace with thick, leather straps.

He watches as the Felix Regiment below concludes the
battle. The cheering of the Regiment can be heard as the
final, isolated pockets of Germans are cut down.

Behind Marcus the sun is setting, painting the world blood
red.

EXT.   BATTLEFIELD - SUNSET

Maximus, bloody and spent, walks through the aftermath of
the carnage. The Wolf of Rome is at his side. Dead and
dying by the hundreds are scattered everywhere. Roman
surgeons are attending to the wounded.

Marcus walks to him, embraces him warmly.
                                  MAXIMUS
             Caesar.

                                  MARCUS
             Maximus, you prove your valor again.
             Let us hope for the final time here.

                                  MAXIMUS
             I don't think there's anyone left to
             fight.

                                  MARCUS
             There are always people left to
             fight...

Marcus takes Maximus' arm and they walk through the masses
of bodies. Maximus holds Marcus' arm firmly, quietly
supporting him as they walk.

                                  MARCUS
             But this night, at least, Germania
             is at last defeated... What will you
             do now, my friend?

                                  MAXIMUS
             Should Caesar permit, I'll go home.
             I've been away too long. I've
             forgotten my wife's face and I
             barely know my son.

Suddenly, a tethered GERMAN PRISONER they are passing
calls out to them:

                                  GERMAN PRISONER
             THIS BLOOD MEANS NOTHING, CONQUEROR!

Maximus and Marcus stop. A soldier moves quickly to
silence the German Prisoner.

                                  MARCUS
                    (to Soldier)
             Stop...
                    (to Prisoner)
             ... You speak our language?

                                  GERMAN PRISONER
             You have been in my homeland for
             twelve years. Of course I speak
             your language. So did my son, who
             you murdered. So did my daughter,
             who you raped.
                                     MAXIMUS
                     (to Marcus)
              Come, Caesar...

                                   MARCUS
              No.  Let him speak...
                     (to Prisoner)
              ... I am Rome, what would you say to
              me?

                                   GERMAN PRISONER
                     (points to sunset)
              You are that sun, Rome, and your
              time is over... You can slit a
              thousand throats here, and you can
              put a thousand babies to the sword,
              but it will always be our home.

                                     MARCUS
              Now it is Rome.

                                   GERMAN PRISONER
              It will never be Rome. Not as long
              as one German breathes.

The soldier moves to kill the insolent Prisoner.

                                  MARCUS
              No... Release him. Give him safe
              passage. Let him go to his family.

The soldier leads the German Prisoner away.

Maximus and Marcus continue walking in silence for a beat.
Then:

                                   MARCUS
              Tell me again, Maximus, why are we
              here?

                                   MAXIMUS
              For the glory of the empire, sire.

                                     MARCUS
                        (quietly)
              Yes.     I remember.

They continue walking through the mountains of bodies...

EXT.   ROAD - SUNSET

Maximus and Marcus are now walking along a road through
the dense forest.   Slaves follow behind them, leading
their horses.

Both sides of the road are filled with the men of the
Felix Regiment. As Maximus and Marcus pass, the battered
and bloody soldiers drag themselves to their feet, raising
their swords, paying silent homage.

                                  MAXIMUS
             They honor you, Caesar.

                                  MARCUS
             I don't think they're standing for
             me, Maximus. They honor you.

Just then Commodus canters into view with his Praetorian
Guard escort. He watches the army honor Maximus with rank
envy as he nears.

He rides up to Maximus and Marcus.

                                     COMMODUS
             Have I missed it?

He leaps from his horse.

                                  COMMODUS
             Have I missed the battle?

                                  MARCUS
             You've missed the war. We're done
             here.

Commodus embraces him, awkward.

                                  COMMODUS
             Father. Congratulations. I shall
             sacrifice a thousand doves to honor
             your triumph.

                                  MARCUS
             Spare the doves and honor Maximus,
             he won the battle.

Commodus embraces Maximus, even more awkward.

                                  COMMODUS
             General, Rome salutes you and I
             embrace you as a brother.

                                     MAXIMUS
             Highness.
They walk, Maximus still supporting Marcus, as:

                                    COMMODUS
               Your Spaniards seem invincible. May
               the Gods favor the Felix Regiment
               now and always...
                      (to his father)
               Here, Father, take my arm.

                                    MARCUS
                      (ignores this)
               Where's your sister?

                                    COMMODUS
               She's at the camp. She had no
               desire to see the gore of the
               battlefield.

                                    MARCUS
                      (smiles)
               Lucilla would eat every corpse here
               if it brought her one step closer to
               the throne.

Maximus laughs.

                                    MAXIMUS
                      (smiles)
               Caesar, you do the lady injustice.

                                    MARCUS
               It's a foolish old cobra who doesn't
               recognize his own off-spring...
                      (he suddenly stops,
                      not feeling well)
               I think... I should ride now.

Maximus   waves for Marcus' horse. It is brought up.
Several   soldiers carefully help the old man into the
saddle.    He is then tethered to the brace on his saddle.
It is a   slow, graceful and embarrassing ordeal for the
Emperor   of Rome.

When at last he is strapped in, he looks to Maximus.

                                    MARCUS
               So much for the glory of Rome.

Without a word to his son, Marcus nods and the horse is
slowly lead away.
Commodus and Maximus watch him go.

                                     COMMODUS
                     (neutral)
              He's dying.

A beat.

                                     COMMODUS
              Poor old man.

                                   MAXIMUS
                     (terse)
              If you'll excuse me, Highness.

He turns and stalks away.

EXT.   TENT CITY - NIGHT

We see the Roman encampment, a sea of tents.    Hundreds of
campfires burn before the tents.

INT.   HOSPITAL TENT - NIGHT

Maximus enters a large tent and is met by a spectacle of
the dead and dying. Roman surgeons are working feverishly
to save lives. Limbs are amputated, the bloody stumps
quickly cauterized with hot irons. Leeches and bronze
cups are employed for blood-letting to balance "humours."

Anesthesia as we know it is nonexistent. Wine amphoras
are passed around and orderlies fan narcotic smoke toward
the patients. Mostly, though, they just hold down the
writhing patients.

Maximus moves through the tent, offering a word of comfort
here and there. All the wounded are delighted to see him.

He goes to an older soldier, GALLUS, who has one wooden
hand. His other hand is bandaged.

                                   MAXIMUS
              What, Gallus, losing your other
              hand?

                                   GALLUS
              Aye, General, they're going to make
              a bronze one for it. Long fingers
              this time.

                                   MAXIMUS
              And the women of your village will
              crave your touch even more.

                                   GALLUS
              Ah, then you know the women of my
              village.

Maximus smiles and moves on.

He stops at a young soldier, VALERIUS, whose head has been
shaved. A hole has been bored into his skull to relieve
the pressure on his brain. The young soldier is dying.

                                   MAXIMUS
              What's your name, son?

                                     VALERIUS
              Valerius, General.

                                     MAXIMUS
              The name suits you.

                                     VALERIUS
              Why am I dying?

A beat.   Maximus sits by his cot.   He takes Valerius'
hand.

                                   MAXIMUS
              You're dying because you love Rome,
              as I do.

                                   VALERIUS
              I've never been to Rome.

                                   MAXIMUS
              Neither have I. Rome for us lives
              here...
                     (he touches his
                     heart)
              ... it's a thing inside us that came
              from our ancestors and that we give
              to our children.

                                   VALERIUS
              It must be glorious, Rome. I've
              only seen pictures. Is it a
              glorious place?

A beat.

                                   MAXIMUS
              Yes, it's a glorious place.
                                  VALERIUS
              It must be.

He smiles.   And he is dead.

Maximus sits for a moment. He gently closes Valerius'
eyes. And Maximus finds that he is weeping.

He is not ashamed of the tears.

INT.   MESS TENT - NIGHT

An immediate swirl of noise. The grand mess tent is
crowded with soldiers. They are still filthy with caked-
on mud and blood. Wounds are bandaged and tankards are
raised in celebration of the victory.

Marcus sits in a central position and receives visitors.
Currently two Senators, FALCO and GAIUS, are bowing before
him.

                                   FALCO
              Hail, Marcus Aurelius.

                                   MARCUS
              Stand up, Senators. That unfamiliar
              posture doesn't suit you.

                                   GAIUS
              We live in supplication to your
              glory.

                                   MARCUS
              All the while conspiring with that
              fat man in Rome. How is the old
              monster?

                                   GAIUS
              Senator Gracchus is hale, sire.

                                   MARCUS
              Still damning me to the four winds?

                                   GAIUS
              Still eager for your triumphant
              return to Rome, Caesar.

                                   MARCUS
              I would have silenced him decades
              ago -- but I just like him too much.
Meanwhile, Maximus stands with his lieutenants, Titus and
Quintus. A wound on Maximus' arm has been bound.

                                  MAXIMUS
                    (to Titus)
             If you want to stay on, I support
             you. So do the men. I'll ask the
             Emperor to appoint you in my place.

                                  TITUS
             It won't be the Felix Regiment
             without you.

                                  MAXIMUS
             I'll return after a season at home.
             Maybe two.

                                  QUINTUS
             That means after three or four more
             babies.

                                  TITUS
             And you'll be too fat from Vibia's
             cooking to get on your horse by
             then.

                                  MAXIMUS
             Should the Gods so bless me.     I
             would be thankful.

Commodus perambulates up to them.

                                   COMMODUS
             Hail, warriors.   My congratulations.

                                    TITUS AND QUINTUS
                    (bowing)
             Highness.

                                  COMMODUS
                    (to Maximus)
             My old friend, my father tells me
             you're returning to Spain?

                                    MAXIMUS
             Yes.

                                 COMMODUS
             A pity. I'll need men like you in
             my army...

An awkward glance between the soldiers.   This sort of talk
is offensively premature.

                                  COMMODUS
             There are larger division that might
             appeal to you. Even the Praetorian
             Guard. You've never been to Rome.
             Imagine arriving as head of the
             Praetorians! They have really
             splendid uniforms.

                                  MAXIMUS
                    (cold)
             I'm going home.

Senators Gaius and Falco join them.

                                  GAIUS
                    (to Maximus)
             ... And why not apply for entry to
             the Senate?

                                  FALCO
             A war hero with a handsome face and
             a strong heart could go far.

                                  COMMODUS
             General Maximus, may I present
             Senators Gaius and Falco. Beware of
             this Gaius, he'll pour a honeyed
             potion in your ear and you'll wake
             up one day and all you'll say is
             "Republic, Republic, Republic..."

Laughter.

                                  FALCO
             Have you never considered Rome?

                                  MAXIMUS
             No.

                                  COMMODUS
             You've had my ear since we were
             children. You could be a valuable
             ally in the Senate.

                                  GAIUS
             Are you a believer in Republicanism?

                                  COMMODUS
                    (laughs)
             There -- I warned you.
                                  MAXIMUS
             I'm a soldier, not a politician.

Meanwhile, a dark eye is studying the men through a hidden
slit in the tent wall. The eye is particularly drawn to
Maximus.

                                  GAIUS
             If your heart lies with the people,
             I would back you for the Senate.
             I'm sure Gracchus would as well.

                                  COMMODUS
             Not a word about that sodomite
             bastard.

                                  GAIUS
                    (smiles to Maximus)
             The august Senator Gracchus has been
             rather a gadfly on the flesh of the
             imperial family.

                                  FALCO
             He's a damned provocateur.

                                  GAIUS
             He lives under the antiquated
             assumption that the Senate should
             represent the people with vigor.

                                  COMMODUS
             I won't tolerate it. His incessant
             criticism exhausts me. The man can
             speak for five hours without taking
             a breath.

                                  GAIUS
             He serves Rome best when he serves
             it with honesty.

                                  COMMODUS
                    (sharply)
             Enough... Maximus, I would like to
             inspect the Felix Regiment at dawn.
             Please arrange it.

                                  MAXIMUS
             I can't do that.

                                  COMMODUS
             Excuse me?
                                   MAXIMUS
              My men have been fighting for five
              solid days. They're too busy dying
              to go on dress parade.

A beat. Commodus' eyes flash fire at this public rebuke.
He very quickly gets control.

                                   COMMODUS
                     (smiles)
              Of course, how foolish of me.   Some
              other time...

He notes his father being helped out of the tent by
several body slaves.

                                   COMMODUS
              Caesar retires early tonight.

INT.   TENT CORRIDOR - NIGHT

Marcus is helped out of the mess tent into a tent corridor
attached.

He sees his daughter Lucilla in the corridor, spying in
through the slit in the tent wall. He watches her,
smiles.

                                   MARCUS
              If only you had been born a man...

She turns to him.   He leaves his body slaves and goes to
her.

                                   LUCILLA
              Father.

                                   MARCUS
              What a Caesar you would have made.

                                   LUCILLA
              You're right.

                                   MARCUS
              I think you would have been strong.
              I wonder if you would have been
              just?

                                   LUCILLA
              I would have been what you taught me
              to be.
A beat.   They stare at each other.    He finally smiles.

                                   MARCUS
              Well, pretend to be my loving
              daughter tonight and walk with me to
              my chamber.

She smiles and takes his arm.   They slowly walk down the
tent corridor as:

                                   MARCUS
              This is a pleasant fiction, isn't
              it?

They disappear into darkness.

EXT.   TENT CITY - DAWN

Maximus is slogging through the mud and snow that blankets
the Rome camp. He stops to observe an unusual sight.

Commodus is stripped almost naked, his chiseled body
covered in a fine sheen of sweat. He and his six
CENTURION BODY GUARDS are going through their daily
ritual. They defy the sub-zero temperatures and hack at
small trees with swords.

It is an eerie, zen-like workout.     Commodus' intense
concentration is unnerving.

Maximus watches for a moment then moves on.     He approaches
a large network of tents. He enters.

INT.   MARCUS' TENT - DAY

Maximus enters Marcus' darkened tent. Flickering braziers
provide the only light in the enormous Imperial tent.
Heavy beams support the canopy and they creak like the
timbers of a ship as the tent sways slightly in the wind.

Marcus stands before a map of the Roman Empire.

                                      MAXIMUS
                     (bows)
              Caesar.

Marcus holds out a scroll.

                                      MARCUS
              Read this.
                                    MAXIMUS
               I never acquired the art, sir.

                                    MARCUS
               Of course. No matter. In this
               letter I denote my intention to
               nominate you to stand for the
               Emperorship after my death.

A stunned pause.   Maximus stares at him.

                                    MARCUS
               My son is not a moral man. You have
               known this since you were young. He
               cannot rule.

                                    MAXIMUS
               Caesar, I am honored but --

                                    MARCUS
               For twenty years I have been
               spilling blood. For twenty years I
               have written philosophy and
               ruminated and conquered. Since I
               became Caesar I have only had four
               years without war. Four years of
               peace in twenty. So perhaps I can
               be... forgiven.

A long beat.

                                    MARCUS
               While I have been fighting, Rome has
               grown mad and corpulent and
               diseased. I did this. And now I
               shall make it right.

                                    MAXIMUS
               Sire, you brought the light of the
               Gods to barbarian darkness. You
               brought civilization and justice to
               the farthest --

                                    MARCUS
                      (fierce)
               I have brought the sword -- nothing
               more! Rome is far away and we
               shouldn't be here. What matter is
               it to the Gods if we subdue one more
               tribe of Parthians or Gauls? What
               matter is it to Rome if a thousand
               more barbarians bend to our lash?
A beat.

Marcus sits.   He doesn't look at Maximus.

A pause.

                                      MARCUS
               Winter, Maximus.    It's winter now...

A beat.

                                    MARCUS
               There was a dream that was Rome. I
               can only whisper of it now.
               Anything more than a whisper and the
               dream vanishes. It's so... fragile.
               The true glory of Rome is in a very
               fragile idea. Imagine a place
               devoted to the rights of the
               citizen. Where every free man has a
               voice. That was the dream... And I
               fear it will not survive the winter.

He holds out a hand to Maximus.     Maximus takes his hand,
deeply moved, kneeling.

                                    MARCUS
               Let's just whisper here, you and I.

                                     MAXIMUS
               Yes, Caesar.

                                    MARCUS
               If the dream is ever to live again
               the people must have a true voice.
               The voice I took from them. That
               all the Caesars took from them, bit
               by bit, conquest by conquest. And
               now that I am dying I am going to
               give them that voice again.

                                     MAXIMUS
               You're not dying.

                                    MARCUS
               I am, Maximus. It's strange... I
               find as I near the end I think
               little of the waning moments around
               me... instead I think much of the
               past... and of the future. How will
               the world speak my name in years to
             come? Will I be known as the
             philosopher? The warrior? The
             tyrant? Or will there be a more
             golden sounding to my name? Will I
             be the Emperor who gave Rome back
             her freedom?

A beat.

                                  MARCUS
             Before I die I will give the people
             this final gift. I will give them
             the Senate reborn. The voice of the
             people empowered again, as it was
             always meant to be. It is my design
             that they will elect the next
             Emperor. And I would put forward
             your name with my backing.

                                  MAXIMUS
             Caesar, you do me honor -- but your
             son has pride of place for
             succession.

                                  MARCUS
             You are the son I should have had...
             Although I fear in my deepest heart
             that if you had truly been my son my
             blood would have polluted you as it
             did Commodus. We're a cursed
             bloodline. We have lived so long in
             power and depravity that we no
             longer remember a life without it.
             We can no longer even imagine a life
             without it.

A beat.

                                 MARCUS
             Look at me, son.

Maximus looks at him.

                                  MARCUS
             Son... I know that one grove of your
             vineyard is worth more to you than
             all the treasures of Rome. I know
             one loving word from your wife is
             worth more than the accolades of an
             Empire. But... a fond old man, who
             loves you more than he can say, begs
             you to at least think about what he
              has said tonight.

                                     MAXIMUS
              I shall, Caesar.

A beat.

                                   MARCUS
              I'll keep this letter to myself. I
              hope that with the sunrise you will
              agree. And embrace me as a father.

Maximus nods and rises.   He begins to go.     Stops.

                                   MAXIMUS
              You have always been my father.

He goes.

INT.   TENT CORRIDOR - DAY

Maximus emerges from Marcus' tent into a long tent
corridor, deep in thought.

                                   LUCILLA'S VOICE
              He always favored you...

He turns.   Lucilla is waiting.    She glides to him.

                                     LUCILLA
              Even over his son.

                                   MAXIMUS
                     (turning away)
              That's not true.

                                   LUCILLA
              Maximus, stop...
                     (he stops)
              Let me see your face.

He turns to her.

                                     LUCILLA
              You've been crying.

                                     MAXIMUS
              I lost too many men.

                                   LUCILLA
              What does my father intend?
He turns and walks.   She walks with him.

                                   MAXIMUS
             I don't know.

                                  LUCILLA
             You're lying. I could tell when you
             were lying even when we were
             children. You hate it.

                                  MAXIMUS
             I never acquired your comfort with
             it.

                                  LUCILLA
             True. But then you never had to.
             Maximus, stop...
                    (he stops again)
             ... Is it really so terrible seeing
             me again?

                                   MAXIMUS
             No. I'm sorry.    I'm tired from the
             battle.

                                  LUCILLA
             And you are hurt to see my father
             dying.

A beat.

                                  LUCILLA
             He will announce Commodus'
             succession. That's why he summoned
             us. Will you serve my brother as
             you served his father?

                                  MAXIMUS
             I will always serve the ideals of
             Rome.

A beat.

                                  LUCILLA
             Do you know I still remember you in
             my prayers...? Oh yes, I pray...
             Ever since that day you saved me
             from drowning off Capri. Do you
             remember?

                                   MAXIMUS
             Yes.
                                   LUCILLA
              Commodus was so angry that a mere
              peasant -- a Spaniard no less --
              touched the royal person, do you
              remember his anger?

                                    MAXIMUS
              Yes.

                                   LUCILLA
              Mark this, Maximus: that is the man
              who will be Emperor.

A beat.

                                   MAXIMUS
              May I be permitted to go, Highness?

She smiles sadly.

                                   LUCILLA
              There was a time when you didn't
              call me "Highness."

                                   MAXIMUS
              And there was a time when you were
              just a little girl drowning in the
              sea. All that was a different life.

                                   LUCILLA
                     (quietly)
              Very different... I wonder if it was
              better?

                                    MAXIMUS
              It was more honest.

A moment between them. We sense there is much to be said,
much that could be said.

Finally:

                                   MAXIMUS
              I thank you for your prayers.

He goes.   She watches him walk away.

INT.   MAXIMUS' TENT - NIGHT

Maximus kneels before a small altar in his tent. He faces
six small figures that represent his dead ancestors.
                                   MAXIMUS
              Ancestors, true bloodline, I ask you
              for your guidance. Bring me your
              solace and your wisdom. Blessed
              Mother, come to me in my dreams with
              the Gods' desire for my future.
              Blessed Father, watch over my wife
              and my son with a ready sword. Keep
              them safe until my return. Whisper
              to them in their sleep that I live
              only to hold them again and all else
              is dust and air. Ancestors, true
              bloodline, I honor you and will try
              to live with the dignity you have
              taught me.

He looks at his "ancestors" for a moment and then blows
out the candles around them.

INT.   MARCUS' TENT - NIGHT

Commodus' eyes are red with weeping. He sits, head down,
at the foot of Marcus' bed and speaks to his father.

                                   COMMODUS
                     (quietly)
              I search the faces of the Gods for
              ways to please you... to make you
              proud... and I can never do it. One
              kind word -- one full hug where you
              pressed me to your chest and held me
              tight -- would have been like the
              sun on my heart for a thousand
              years... What is it in me you hate
              so much? My eyes are your eyes. My
              hands are your hands. All I have
              ever wanted was to live up to you.
              Caesar. Father.

He stands. We see that he is holding the scroll denoting
Marcus' intention to nominate Maximus as Emperor to the
Senate. Commodus cannot control his tears.

                                   COMMODUS
              Why does Maximus deserve what I
              could never have? -- Why do you love
              his eyes over mine? -- I would
              butcher the whole world -- if you
              would only love me...

Commodus weeps.
INT.   MAXIMUS' TENT - NIGHT

Quintus is waking Maximus --

                                   QUINTUS
              General -- Maximus --

                                     MAXIMUS
              Quintus -- ?

                                   QUINTUS
              The Emperor needs you. It's urgent.

Maximus leaps up and throws on a cloak, strides out with
Quintus...

EXT.   TENT CITY - NIGHT

Dead of night. Maximus and Quintus stride quickly through
the sleeping camp toward Marcus' tent.

                                      MAXIMUS
              What is it?     Is he ill?

                                     QUINTUS
              I don't know...

They continue on toward Marcus' tent.

INT.   MARCUS' TENT - NIGHT

Maximus and Quintus stride into the tent -- Maximus slams
to a halt. Stunned.

Commodus stands before him.     Lucilla stands in a corner of
the tent, head down.

And Marcus Aurelius dead, lying on his bed.

Maximus stares at Marcus.

                                   COMMODUS
              Lament with me, brother, our great
              father is dead. I want --

Maximus, not even hearing, steps past him to Marcus.

He stands for a moment and then slowly kneels before
Marcus and gently kisses the old man's forehead. A ritual
farewell.
A moment of silent mourning and then Maximus stands.   He
turns very, very slowly to Commodus.

                                  COMMODUS
             General, the Gods' have taken the
             great man and left me alone. My
             first desire as Emperor is that you
             take my hand in friendship. I need
             you at my side, Maximus, at this
             moment above all others. Stand with
             me.

Maximus glares at him:

                                   MAXIMUS
             How did he die?

Commodus does not respond.

                                   MAXIMUS
             How did he die?

                                  COMMODUS
             The surgeons say it was his breath
             that gave out.

Maximus glances to Lucilla, she avoids his eyes.

                                  COMMODUS
             Take my hand, Maximus. I only offer
             it once.

A beat.

Maximus turns back to Marcus.

                                  MAXIMUS
             How will the world speak your name
             now, old man?

Without a glance to Commodus, he stalks out.

A silent beat.   Then Commodus nods to Quintus.   Quintus
goes.

Lucilla looks at Commodus for a long moment, her face an
enigmatic tornado of complex emotions.

Then:

                                   LUCILLA
             Hail, Caesar.
INT.   MAXIMUS' TENT - NIGHT

Maximus is kneeling before his ancestors, head down, his
fists clenched, praying.

Quintus and four Praetorian ASSASSINS suddenly burst in --
the assassins move immediately to bind Maximus -- swords
at his throat --

                                    MAXIMUS
              What -- ?!

                                   QUINTUS
                     (ashamed)
              Please don't fight, Maximus --

                                    MAXIMUS
              Quintus --

Quintus goes to Maximus' armor, which hangs nearby, and
slowly removes his seal of office.

                                   QUINTUS
              I'm sorry, General, Caesar has
              spoken.

They pull Maximus out --

EXT.   MAXIMUS' TENT - TENT CITY - NIGHT

Five horses are waiting.

                                    MAXIMUS
              Quintus, what -- ?

                                    QUINTUS
                     (anguish)
              I have no choice --

They are almost run over by a stern cohort of twenty
Praetorians who gallop past. Maximus knows immediately
what this means.

                                    MAXIMUS
                     (suddenly)
              My family?!

A beat.

                                   MAXIMUS
              What about my family, Quintus?
                                   QUINTUS
                     (quietly)
              They will greet you in the
              afterlife.

Maximus lunges at him -- the Praetorians subdue him --
slamming him with a sword hilt -- knocking him
unconscious.

                                   QUINTUS
                     (quietly, to
                     assassins)
              Take him as far as the sunrise and
              then kill him.

EXT.   FOREST ROAD - DAWN

The four Praetorian assassins lead Maximus along a road.
He sits slumped in his saddle, drained.

                                   ASSASSIN #1
              All right, this is far enough.

The three other assassins climb from their horses.
Assassin #2 pushes Maximus from his horse. He falls to
the ground hard.

                                   ASSASSIN #1
              You two take him down there where no
              one will find him.

                                    ASSASSIN #3
              Come on, General...

Assassin #3 and Assassin #4 drag Maximus down a densely
forested hill along the road. Maximus' hands are still
bound in front of him. He seems totally lacking in any
resistance.

EXT.   FOREST - BELOW THE ROAD - DAWN

Maximus eyes the two assassins as they troop down the
hill away from the road, he notes their sparkling armor.
The armor of men who have never seen real battle.

                                   MAXIMUS
              Have you ever done this before?

                                    ASSASSIN #3
              What?
                                   MAXIMUS
              Killed a man with a sword?

                                   ASSASSIN #3
              Not like this, exactly... this is
              good, you can stop.

They stop.   They are far down the hill, out of sight of
the road.

                                   MAXIMUS
              It can be very messy -- you could
              get blood all over your armor. You
              don't want to hack me up now. You
              want one clean stroke.

                                   ASSASSIN #3
              Would you kneel, General?

Maximus kneels, his whole body secretly coiling.    Assassin
#3 stands over him as:

                                   MAXIMUS
              One good stroke -- you do know
              where, don't you?

                                   ASSASSIN #4
              Be quiet.

                                   MAXIMUS
              If you miss the spot there'll be
              blood everywhere. Quite a spray.

                                   ASSASSINS #3
              All right, where?

                                   MAXIMUS
              Here -- you don't want to hit the
              vein on the neck --

Maximus points his bound hands at a spot on the back of
his neck.

                                   MAXIMUS
              Put the point of your sword here...
              you want one, good blow right at
              this spot --

Assassin #3 dutifully puts the point of his sword on the
spot on Maximus' neck.

A grave mistake.
Maximus instantly grabs the blade of the sword with his
hands and yanks it from Assassin #3 -- EXPLODING up -- his
hands are bleeding but he tosses the sword into the air
and catches it -- swings the sword with brutal efficiency
-- decapitating both assassins --

EXT.   FOREST ROAD - DAWN

On the road above, the other two Assassins are on their
horses, waiting.

They hear a quick yelp from below.   And then nothing.

Assassin #1 nods for Assassin #2 to check on the
execution. Assassin #2 canters off the road and down the
hill...

EXT.   FOREST - BELOW THE ROAD - DAWN

Assassin #2 canters down the hillside.

He senses movement behind him -- spins around, drawing his
sword -- too late --

Maximus throws a sword -- it flashes through the air --
and into Assassin #2.

EXT.   FOREST ROAD - DAWN

Assassin #1 waits on his horse. He hears the commotion
below -- spins his horse around just as Maximus bursts to
the road. He stands with a sword.

Assassin #1 spurs his horse and gallops toward Maximus at
full speed -- Maximus crouches and prepares --

Assassin #1 and Maximus swirl together for an instant --
both slashing brutally --

Assassin #1 continues to gallop past Maximus. He stops.
He looks down. A wound in his stomach. He falls off his
horse. Dead.

Maximus has also been wounded -- a deep gash on his side.
He fights the pain as he moves toward the horses...

EXT.   FOREST ROAD - DAY

Maximus is galloping through the forest at lightning
speed, leading four horses behind him. The gash in his
side bleeding.
EXT.   TENT CITY - DAY

A gloomy day. Emperor Commodus stands before the
assembled Felix Regiment.

The soldiers are already uneasy. They note Quintus
standing by Commodus, wearing Maximus' seal of office.
Where is Maximus?

                                   COMMODUS
              Even as the Gods curse this dark day
              with clouds, so too does the sun
              begin to shine forth on a promised
              tomorrow. Even as we mourn the
              passing of our father, so too do we
              celebrate the coming of a bright,
              new age for Rome. At my side,
              brothers, you shall pull fresh
              glories from the heavens. At my
              side, brothers, you shall know the
              adoration of the Gods. Doubly-dark
              is this day because my friend, your
              noble commander Maximus Meridas, has
              been called to Rome to deal with
              urgent matters of state...

Titus glances quickly to Gallus, whose hand is bandaged
from surgery. They know this cannot be true.

                                   COMMODUS
              Until his promised return I
              appointed Quintus Domitian to serve
              in his stead. I salute you,
              Legionnaires!

                                   QUINTUS
                     (raising his sword)
              Hail, Caesar!

The Felix Regiment responds, many unsure.

                                  FELIX REGIMENT
              Hail, Caesar!

Commodus strides off and the Felix Regiment slowly
disbands, muttering to one another in confusion.

Titus and Gallus go to Quintus.

                                   TITUS
              Quintus, what is -- ?
                                      QUINTUS
                     (firmly)
              Don't speak of it.      Never speak of
              it.

He stalks off. Titus and Gallus, concerned, watch him
follow after Commodus.

INT.   MAXIMUS' TENT - DAY

Lucilla stands in Maximus' tent. She looks around. She
gently touches his Lorica Segmentata. Her fingertips move
along the contours of his armor. She tries to retain her
neutral demeanor.

She notes his "ancestors" on the small alter.

EXT.   HILLSIDE - NIGHT

Maximus continues to gallop, he is on a different horse.
He leads only two horses now.

EXT.   VINEYARD - DAY

Maximus' home in Spain is beautiful beyond measure.

We see verdant farmlands and vineyards and a spacious
house nestled amid gently rolling hills.

Maximus' eight-year-old SON is in a paddock playing with
his pony. He stops, sees something. Over a hill, he can
just glimpse a battle flag, approaching.

He screams with joy and runs toward the flag as he calls:

                                       MAXIMUS' SON
              MOTHER!     MOTHER!   FATHER'S HOME!

Maximus' WIFE emerges from the house, drying her hands on
a cloth and smiles.

Maximus' Son races toward the flag. He can just see the
soldiers beginning to appear over the hill. Not a Roman
Legion at all. Twenty Praetorians canter over the hill.

Maximus' Son stops, confused.

EXT.   OLIVE GROVE - DAY

Maximus is galloping up a hill, leading only one horse
now. The horse he is on is exhausted, spent, foam coats
its neck.   It can't make it.

The horse collapses and Maximus falls. He immediately
leaps onto the remaining horse and continues riding up the
hill.

EXT.   HILLS AROUND VINEYARD - SUNSET

Maximus is racing over the countryside, galloping in a
frenzy. His wound is bleeding profusely, coating the side
of his horse.

He rears the horse to a stop for a moment. Over a hill he
can see thick black smoke rising. He spurs the horse and
gallops over the hill...

EXT.   VINEYARD - SUNSET

And his worst nightmares are realized.

His home and his vineyards have been destroyed. The earth
has been scorched and his house is still smoldering. He
rides up to the house and practically falls off the horse.

He pulls himself up and walks past the smoldering debris
of his house, fearing what he knows he will find.

He sees the bodies of servants scattered about in the
ruins. He sees a Praetorian battle flag.

He continues on, his wound bleeding more with every
tortured step. He finally stops. He stares up.

His wife and his son have been crucified and burnt. They
are nothing more than grotesquely twisted, charred shapes.

Maximus instantly collapses to his knees -- he howls out
his torment in a heartrending keen of despair as he coats
his face in the ashes of his dead world. He sinks into
unconsciousness, praying for death.

EXT.   VINEYARD - DAY

An unusual jingling sound is heard. Maximus appears to be
dead, his gaping wound beginning to fester.

The source of the jingling becomes clear when we see the
feet of Bedouin brigands, with delicate anklets, shuffling
around him. A hand touches his sandals. Rich sandals.
Another touches his tunic. Good cloth.

Suddenly Maximus groans.   The hands stop.   He's alive.   A
bit of quick language in an unknown tongue.

Then the hands grab Maximus and drag him away.

EXT.   SLAVE WAGON TRAIN - DAY

Maximus' eyes slowly open --

Inches away from his face -- a lion roars --

Maximus lurches back.

He looks around to realize he is in a filthy slave wagon.
Three other wagons slowly move over the desert landscape.
Exotic animals are caged in pens or led alongside the
wagons: lions, panthers, zebras, a giraffe. A dozen
slaves are chained together alongside sacks of spices and
other cargo. Bedouin slave traders jabber in a surreal
babel of foreign tongues.

And someone is looking at him. JUBA, a striking African,
is gazing at him impassively as he chews something. Juba
is also chained.

                                  MAXIMUS
                     (weakly)
              Am I in Hades?

                                  JUBA
              Yes.

Juba spits what he has been chewing into his hands and
moves to Maximus.

                                  JUBA
              For your wound...

Maximus stares at him.

                                  JUBA
                     (nods)
              For your wound.

Maximus looks down -- the bloody wound at his side.

Juba carefully places his poultice over the wound --
Maximus hisses in pain -- Juba massages the poultice into
the wound gently as:

                                   JUBA
              If you die in the wagons they feed
              you to the lions... The lions are
              worth more than we are. I think we
              are worth more than the zebras
              though. So they don't feed us to
              them.

Maximus stares at him. Juba looks down at him with the
barest hint of a smile.

                                   JUBA
              I'm not sure about the giraffe.

EXT.   SLAVE MARKET - DAY

The heat of Morocco is unlike anything Maximus has ever
known. Shimmering heat waves undulate over the sand.

The provincial market is bustling like the proverbial
anthill. Slave traders and dealers and merchants move
around, all talking very quickly and very emphatically.

Maximus, Juba and a number of other slaves are on display,
poked and prodded and fondled. Their BEDOUIN SLAVE TRADER
sings out their praises to any passers.

The crowd parts almost magically for the dramatic arrival
of PROXIMO. Proximo is a large man of immense appetites.
He has the ferocious appearance of a true pirate. Two
slaves follow behind him and impotently swat at flies with
switches.

                                   SLAVE TRADER
              Proximo, my old friend, see what I
              have for you today -- !

Proximo SLAMS a fist into the Slave Trader's face.   The
Slave Trader sails back.

                                   PROXIMO
              Those giraffes you sold me won't
              mate! All they do is run around not
              mating! YOU SOLD ME EUNUCH
              GIRAFFES!!

The Slave Trader pulls himself up, hugely obsequious.

                                   SLAVE TRADER
              I will make it up to you, Master.
              It's bargain day for you! Look,
              look, look -- I have two lions and a
              panther -- hear how they roar for
              you! "Bring me home, Proximo!"
Proximo examines the animals.

                                  PROXIMO
             How much for the lot?

                                  SLAVE TRADER
             For you -- 8,000 sesterces.

                                  PROXIMO
             For me -- 6,000 sesterces and I want
             to see their balls first. And you
             throw in those two slaves.

                                  SLAVE TRADER
                    (moves to Maximus)
             What about this one? Look at the
             arms!

Proximo moves to Maximus.    The Slave Trader forces open
Maximus' mouth.

                                    PROXIMO
             Good teeth --

Proximo notes the many old battle scars on Maximus' body.

                                  PROXIMO
             Where did you get those scars?

Maximus doesn't respond.

                                    PROXIMO
             Are you a soldier?

Maximus doesn't respond.

                                  PROXIMO
             Do you speak? --
                    (he roars back to a
                    slave)
             KEEP THOSE DAMN FLIES OFF ME!
                    (back to Maximus)
             He's dying.

                                    SLAVE TRADER
             1,000 sesterces.

                                  PROXIMO
             My ass...
                    (moves to Juba)
             You throw in this one and we'll make
             it 7,000 sesterces for the whole
             lot.

                                  SLAVE TRADER
             I have to eat, Master! He's my
             finest, I couldn't let him go as
             part of the lot for less than 9,000
             total...
                    (back to Maximus)
             I tell you this one is prime. He's
             a Spaniard and killed fourteen of my
             men before he could be subdued!

Proximo looks at Maximus, notes the many battle scars
again. The scars, and something he senses in Maximus'
eyes, is enough for Proximo to consider it.

                                  PROXIMO
                    (to trader)
             All right, let's see.

The Slave Trader and his colleagues grab Maximus and
bustle him across the market, unlocking his chains.
Maximus has no idea what's going on.

In the center of the market place, a veritable GIANT of a
man sits on a small stool, a wooden sword in his hand. He
is hunched over and chained to the ground by a ten foot
chain shackled to his ankle. A think metal helmet is
riveted around his entire head, only long turfs of hair
emerging. His dim eyes stare listlessly through a slot in
the helmet.

The Slave Trader puts a wooden sword in Maximus' hand and
shoves him toward the Giant. The Giant stands. He towers
over Maximus.

The Giant suddenly swings his sword -- he moves with
remarkable quickness -- Maximus makes no attempt to block
the blow -- it sends him flying to the ground.

Maximus pulls himself up.

The Giant moves in and hits him again -- Maximus recoils
-- the Giant hits him again -- Maximus falls.

Maximus pulls himself up.

The Giant moves in again -- he slams him a few more times
-- Maximus makes no attempt to protect himself -- he
falls.

Maximus pulls himself up.
The Giant is about to attack again --

                                   PROXIMO
                     (to Slave Trader)
              That's enough.

                                   SLAVE TRADER
              STOP!   STOP!

His colleagues race into the ring and haul the Giant away
from Maximus. The Giant quietly sits back on his stool.

Proximo studies Maximus for a moment and then glances to
the Slave Trader.

                                   PROXIMO
              I'll give you 500 sesterces.

                                   SLAVE TRADER
              No -- no -- 1,000!

                                   PROXIMO
                     (laughs)
              Come, don't quibble with your old
              friend. I'll take the lions, the
              panther, the Numidian and this one
              for 7,000. And I'll buy you the
              best whore in the town for two
              nights. She's an enormous mountain
              of flesh who craves a stern hand.

                                   SLAVE TRADER
              How could I say no to my old friend
              Proximo?

EXT.   PROXIMO'S SCHOOL - DAY

Maximus and Juba are crammed into a wagon with about ten
other slaves, including a very scared and reedy SCRIBE.
Other wagons are filled with exotic animals, including
several lions.

The wagons move through a crowded casbah and are taken
through an imposing set of gates to...

EXT.   PROXIMO'S SCHOOL - COMPOUND - DAY

An open compound in Proximo's school. On one side of the
compound is a series of cages filled with wild animals of
every description -- including Proximo's two hapless
giraffes.
Proximo's house slaves begin unloading the newly purchased
exotic animals into cages as Maximus and the new slaves
are unloaded. Heavily armed guards supervise everything.

But Proximo's slaves are having a bit of a problem with
one of the new lions -- it growls and resists them.

Without the slightest hesitation, Proximo thunders to the
lion and grabs it by the mane -- manhandling it into a
cage.

                                  PROXIMO
             COME ON, YOU FILTHY BEAST!

He kicks the lion in the rear as he shoves it into the
cage.

Proximo's provincial school resembles nothing so much as a
seedy prison. The fading grandeur of the decaying
battlements and the sweeping North African architecture
only slightly mitigate the brutal feel of the place.

And if Maximus had any doubts as to Proximo's profession
-- all doubts are washed away when he sees the compound.

Twenty GLADIATORS are working out in the compound --
hacking at practice dummies and sparring. The many
heavily armed guards oversee everything. The gladiators
stop working out as they see the new slaves enter. They
eye their potential new opponents warily.

One huge, glowering gladiator -- VIBIUS -- watches with
particular interest. His eye is quickly drawn to the most
obvious athlete: Juba.

The new slaves are herded to the middle of the compound
and house slaves immediately begin throwing buckets of
water on them, cleaning them.

Meanwhile, Proximo shrugs off his cloak. A slave brings
him wine as he give his "welcoming speech" to the new
slaves:

                                 PROXIMO
             Slaves. I am Proximo, trainer of
             gladiators. You live and die at my
             pleasure. Fight well and you will
             live. Fight poorly and you will
             die. It is better to live.

Slaves now toss thick handfuls of powdered lime on the new
slaves -- they cough and clench their eyes shut, the lime
coats and stings their wet bodies.

                                   PROXIMO
              Here you will be trained in the art
              of combat. Here you will be given
              the tools to survive. Please my
              patrons in the arena and all the
              gifts of the world will be showered
              upon you. Imagine riches beyond
              your paltry dreams of riches!
              Imagine fame beyond your rude
              understanding of the word! All this
              can belong to the select few who
              prove their worth in the arena.

Slaves throw more water on the new slaves -- washing off
the lime.

                                   PROXIMO
              If... on the other hand... you
              disappoint me... you will be
              dismembered and fed to my jackals
              limb by limb.

He gazes evenly at his new acquisitions.

                                   PROXIMO
              And my jackals are always hungry.

He strides off and the guards shove the new gladiators
toward their cells.

INT.   PROXIMO'S SCHOOL - MAXIMUS' CELL - NIGHT

Maximus and Juba share a small, filthy cell. The cell
door faces the open compound. Across the compound they
can see the much more comfortable cells of the "star"
gladiators such as Vibius.

They both sit on the floor, leaning against the wall.
Juba is eating a bowl of food with a wooden spoon.
Maximus' bowl and spoon are at his side, he has not
touched them.

                                   JUBA
              Have you killed a man before?

Maximus does not respond.

                                    JUBA
              You should eat.   You'll need your
               strength tomorrow.

Maximus does not respond.

                                    JUBA
               I've never killed a man. But I
               think you have.

Maximus does not respond.

                                    JUBA
               I almost killed once. The Romans
               destroyed my village. I was with a
               hunting party and when we
               returned... I would have killed
               every Roman in the world.

A long beat.

                                    JUBA
               If you don't eat you will die.

Maximus does not respond.

A beat.

                                    JUBA
               In the village I come from there was
               a man once. He went fishing one day
               and his boat was attacked by
               crocodiles. One of them ate his
               leg. He pulled himself to the shore
               and a lion attacked him. It ate one
               of his arms. He dragged himself
               through the desert on the way home
               and a scorpion stung his eye. So he
               only had one eye. When he reached
               the village I sat with him. I said,
               "You have lost a leg, an arm and one
               eye. You must have a mighty will to
               live." He said, "No, Lord, it's
               just better than the alternative."

Maximus finally looks at him.

                                    JUBA
               Life is a gift from our fathers to
               us. Who are you to give it up for
               lack of lifting a spoon?

Maximus does not respond.
EXT.   PROXIMO'S SCHOOL - COMPOUND - NIGHT

Maximus and Juba are being observed. Proximo stands in
the shadows of the compound and watches intently.

EXT.   SLAVE WAGON - PROVINCIAL STREETS - DAY

Blood appears to be flowing across an oxen's back.   But
the blood is too rich, too red.

The oxen are pulling an open slave wagon through the
crowded streets of the town. Hanging above the street is
dyed wool drying in the sun. Vermilion and crimson dyes
drip down and splash across the oxen -- and splash across
the gladiators.

Maximus, Juba, the formidable Vibius are chained in the
back of the wagon. Also the frightened Scribe.

Proximo and a few of his guards drive the wagon. Proximo
has an umbrella over him, colored with years of dripping
dyes.

They pass a banner honoring Vibius, the star of Proximo's
stable.

Meanwhile, the terrified Scribe is almost weeping,
chattering nervously to Vibius, chained next to him:

                                   SCRIBE
              I know nothing of armaments and
              warfare! I'm a scribe -- I write
              down words! I can write down seven
              languages --

                                   VIBIUS
              Be still.

                                   SCRIBE
              I don't -- how do you hold the
              sword?! I've never held a sword!

                                   VIBIUS
              You point the sharp end at your
              opponent and you shove it in his
              guts.

                                   SCRIBE
              I can't -- I --

He suddenly vomits.
                                   VIBIUS
                     (calling to Proximo)
              Proximo! You insult me with this
              carrion! Chain him to someone else!

                                   PROXIMO
                     (calling back)
              Don't worry, noble Vibius, he won't
              be bothering you for long.

The Scribe begins to weep.

The crowds in the street jeer at the passing gladiators.
Occasionally throwing trash at them. A pack of children
run alongside the wagon, chanting:

                                    CHILDREN
              Dead guts!   Dead guts! Dead guts!

Maximus watches the children for a moment and then another
sight draws his attention. Over some buildings he can see
vultures circling in the distance.

EXT.   PROVINCIAL ARENA - DUGOUT - DAY

In the cramped holding area of the arena, a dugout beneath
the stands, Maximus and the other gladiators are waiting.

Proximo walks before them, giving a final "pep talk." He
gazes at them evenly, his eyes going from face to face.

                                   PROXIMO
              Some of you say you can't fight, you
              won't fight... They all say that...
              But one day you will pick up a sword
              and thrust it into another man. And
              the crowd will cheer you and love
              you. And you will love them for it.
              On that day... you will be a
              gladiator.

He stops at Maximus.

                                   PROXIMO
              In this life, we all die. All we
              can choose is how we die. And how
              we are remembered. Be remembered
              proudly.

Drums are heard from the arena.   Proximo nods to a waiting
blacksmith.
The blacksmith begins slamming shackles on the gladiator's
wrists -- chaining them together in teams of two by a
chain about four feet long.

The blacksmith is about to chain Maximus to the Scribe.

                                    PROXIMO
                No...
                       (he points to Juba)
                ... give the Spaniard to him.    Give
                the Scribe to Vibius.

Proximo nods to Vibius, who, for reasons we shall soon
see, makes no protest to being chained to the whimpering
Scribe.

Proximo watches the blacksmith shackle Maximus and Juba
together and then strides off.

                                     JUBA
                       (to Maximus)
                Are we going to fight each other?

EXT.   PROVINCIAL ARENA - DAY

Proximo sits in a box with several other GLADIATOR
TRAINERS. They drink wine and eat constantly. A
perpetual chatter of wagers and odds and side bets.

The arena is only sparsely attended this day.

                                     PROXIMO
                Make it 600 sesterces for each
                decapitation.

                                    TRAINER #1
                How many strokes?

                                    PROXIMO
                Two.

                                     TRAINER #1
                For the great Vibius, one stroke.

                                    PROXIMO
                Done. 400 sesterces for two
                strokes.

In the arena:

Proximo's chained teams enter the arena, five teams.
Maximus and Juba are chained together. Some of the small
crowd cheers for Vibius. He acknowledges the cheers.   He
is chained to the weeping Scribe.

In the box:

Trainer #1 laughs.

                                      TRAINER #1
                       (re: Vibius)
                Who's he with?

                                      PROXIMO
                A Greek Scribe.

                                     TRAINER #1
                I'll raise the wager.

                                     PROXIMO
                       (smiles)
                Give me odds, friend.

In the arena:

From the opposite end of the arena a dozen armored, very
scary Andabatae thunder into the arena. Some of the crowd
cheers.

The Andabatae immediately race for the chained teams and
the battle is on.

Vibius spins into action -- dragging the weeping Scribe
after him as he circles opponents and fights -- the Scribe
is almost instantly killed -- Vibius immediately hacks
through the Scribe's wrist and frees himself, as Proximo
surely intended. Vibius is now free to fight alone,
swinging the chain as an additional weapon.

Juba's eyes dart everywhere as he tries to move with
Maximus -- Maximus neither helps nor hinders -- allowing
Juba to pull him along --

Proximo, now that his star Vibius is safe, watched Maximus
and Juba closely.

Juba fights well, with a strange elegance, his body
flowing like liquid -- but he is inexperienced. He
strikes a few blows and then tries to move away -- finally
he is in trouble -- cornered -- a huge Andabata is slicing
at him -- it is a desperate battle -- Juba is losing --
his sword is slammed away -- the Andabata raises his sword
for the kill --
And Maximus strikes.

With a sudden roar he EXPLODES into action -- he swings
past Juba and blocks the blow meant for Juba -- then he
slashes the Andabata -- killing him -- he pulls Juba after
him as he fights --

It is a dazzling display of Maximus' skill -- he moves
through the Andabatae at amazing speed -- spinning around
Juba and protecting him -- slashing ruthlessly -- pulling
Juba after him and commanding the battle -- Juba recovers
a sword and they fight together.

In the box:

Proximo watches, smiles.    A gladiator is born.

EXT.   ROME - WAGON - DAY

SENATOR GRACCHUS, an imposing, moral and corpulent man in
his 60's, is riding in a luxurious wagon with Senator
Gaius.

And CAPTAIN MARCELLUS, the handsome Head of the Roman City
Guard.

Their wagon slowly maneuvers through the crowded streets
of Rome. The cosmopolitan bustle of the great urban
center is everywhere around them.

                                   GRACCHUS
              We have plague in the Hebrew Quarter
              and it is spreading... we have
              looting at the granaries... we have
              so much filth in the Tiber that the
              water is undrinkable... we have
              Praetorian Guard units that are
              demanding protection payments from
              the merchants at the exchange --

                                   MARCELLUS
              My City Guard units have tried to
              curtail these excesses but no
              constabulary can police the entire
              city. And the Praetorians outnumber
              us two to one.

                                   GRACCHUS
              Rome dies as the Emperor plays at
              beneficence. At least Nero gave us
              music!
                                   GAIUS
              Do you think he'll listen to us?

                                   GRACCHUS
              It is his duty to hear the will of
              the Senate.

Their wagon stops -- hopelessly stuck in a massive traffic
jam of chariots, wagons and sedan chairs.

                                   GRACCHUS
              Not to mention the damn traffic!

INT.   PALACE - THRONE ROOM - DAY

Emperor Commodus is standing before a group of male
children and their tutors in his throne room.

The throne room is still very much the province of his
father. Manuscripts and astronomical charts and papyrus
scrolls and wax tablets litter the heavy desk. A large
bust of Marcus Aurelius is in one corner.

Lucilla and Senator Falco are present. So too Senators
Gracchus and Gaius and Captain Marcellus.

A well-rehearsed child presents Commodus with a laurel
wreath.

                                   CHILD
              We honor Caesar with the laurel to
              show our love and appreciation for
              his benevolence.

                                   COMMODUS
              Caesar is honored to accept your
              tribute, Citizen Scholar.

The child smiles and moves back to his fellows.

                                    COMMODUS
                     (to all)
              It is the most sacred duty of the
              Emperor to oversee the education of
              the young. If I could leave no
              other legacy than the scholarship of
              all children my life would be
              blessed. Tutors, you hold the
              future of Rome in your hands. Teach
              them well so that they will bring
              honor to the Empire. I salute you.
Commodus actually bows before them, an unimaginable honor.

The tutors bow in response and herd the children out.

                                  COMMODUS
             Look at them, Senators... my truest
             gift to Rome.

                                  GRACCHUS
             Darling children, to be sure, now if
             I may proceed?

                                  COMMODUS
                    (sighs)
             Very well...

Commodus moves to the desk, standing over it and gazing at
Marcus' scrolls as:

                                  GRACCHUS
             Caesar, your presence in Rome is an
             invaluable opportunity to begin
             correcting some of the ills that
             have beset the city since your
             father went to the wars. We would
             like to --

                                  COMMODUS
             Peace, good Gracchus, peace...

Commodus slowly begins pushing Marcus' papyrus scrolls off
the desk to the floor, one by one, as:

                                  COMMODUS
             My beloved father was a careless
             shepherd to his flock. I shall be a
             good father to my children. I shall
             remain in Rome and show them how
             they are loved.

                                  GRACCHUS
             With respect, sire, the people don't
             need love -- they need law. The
             Senate has prepared a series of
             protocols to begin addressing the
             corruption in the city --
                    (Gaius hands him a
                    scroll)
             -- starting with basic sanitation in
             the Hebrew Quarter. If Caesar could
             study this and --
                                  COMMODUS
             You see that's the very problem,
             isn't it, my old, old friend? My
             father spent all his time at study.
             At books and learning and
             philosophy...

As Commodus speaks he moves to the chair behind the desk,
tries it, doesn't like it, nods to a slave. The chair is
whisked away.

                                  COMMODUS
             He spent his twilight hours reading
             scrolls from the Senate. All the
             while, the people were forgotten.

                                  GRACCHUS
             The Senate is the people.

                                  COMMODUS
             I doubt many of the people eat so
             well as you do, Senator Gracchus...

As Commodus speaks he moves to the bust of Marcus, studies
it, doesn't like it, nods to a slave and the bust is
whisked away. Lucilla watches this closely.

                                  COMMODUS
             I doubt many of the people have such
             splendid armor, Captain Marcellus.
             Or such fine mistresses, Senator
             Gaius. No... only their true father
             knows what the people need. I shall
             show them they are loved. I shall
             hold them to my bosom and embrace
             them tightly --

                                  GRACCHUS
             Have you ever embraced someone dying
             of plague, sire?

Commodus stops.   Looks at him.   A lethal moment.

                                  COMMODUS
             No. But if you interrupt me one
             more time I assure you that you
             shall. I will emulate the immortal
             Caesars of the past. I will give
             the people what they truly want.
             Starting this day I will draw all of
             Rome to the Colosseum. I will give
             them bread. And they will want
             nothing more.

Startled looks between Gracchus, Gaius and Marcellus.

                                  GRACCHUS
             You want to hold games?

                                  COMMODUS
             Not just any games, Senator! A
             series of games that will make the
             Gods envious and leave my children
             happy! I will subsidize the arena
             from this day forth -- and I will
             culminate this celebration in a
             great spectacle the likes of which
             the world has never seen! A great
             spectacle to honor my father!
             Magnificent, unending weeks of
             festivity all in the name of Marcus
             Aurelius!

A beat.

                                  GRACCHUS
             If I may, Caesar... how are you
             going to pay for this?

                                  COMMODUS
             That is not your concern.

Gracchus ignores a warning look from Gaius.

                                  GRACCHUS
             Respectfully, sire, taxation and
             import duties are the exclusive
             province of the Senate --

Commodus spins on him so quickly and with such feral
violence that everyone is shocked --

                                  COMMODUS
             MY FATHER DESERVES TO BE HONORED AND
             I WILL HONOR HIM! -- AND THE PEOPLE
             WILL LOVE ME! -- AND THE SENATE WILL
             OBEY ME OR EVERY ONE OF YOU WILL
             BURN! BURN! BURN! -- I WILL HAVE
             ORDER!

He snarls like a great jungle cat and he stalks away.
Senator Falco quickly follows.

A dreadful silence.
Then:

                                    LUCILLA
               Gentlemen, in the future do not
               concern my brother with these
               matters. Come to me.

She sweeps out.

A beat.

                                     MARCELLUS
               Games?   He wants to hold games?

                                    GAIUS
               It's madness.

                                    GRACCHUS
               No... it's not...

A beat.

                                    GRACCHUS
               He knows who Rome is. Rome is the
               mob. He will conjure magic for them
               and they will be distracted. And he
               will takes their lives. And he will
               take their freedom. And still they
               will roar. The beating heart of
               Rome isn't the marble of the Senate.
               It's the sand of the Colosseum. He
               will give them death. And they will
               love him for it.

INT.    PROVINCIAL ARENA - DUGOUT - TUNNELS - DAY

Maximus is marching relentlessly through the dugout and
cramped, serpentine trench-like tunnels that lead to the
arena.

We don't really see Maximus well in the dark tunnels.

Proximo scurries to keep up with him -- they brush past
gladiators who line the walls. Some are wounded, some are
being attended to by surgeons, some are shell-shocked,
some are nervously waiting to go on, whispering prayers.

We twist and turn in the tunnels with Proximo and Maximus
as:

                                    PROXIMO
                     (quickly)
              I've wagered on you against the
              Celts -- ignore the others and go
              for them -- there are two axe-and-
              net and two long spear. Now the
              Celts aren't used to the sun so you
              have the advantage there...

The roar of the crowd is growing, they are nearing the
arena...

                                   PROXIMO
              And keep them moving, their lungs
              aren't strong, ground the spears as
              soon as you can and then go for the
              ax-men. If you get all four there's
              an extra bonus so don't be
              distracted by the Spartans...

Without a word to Proximo, or a moment's hesitation,
Maximus strides into the arena.

EXT.   PROVINCIAL ARENA - DAY

We continue with Maximus as he strides into the roaring
arena.

We finally see him in the blazing sunlight -- he wears
traditional gladiator armor and now has longer hair and a
beard --

A battle is already in progress, fighting and dead and
dying gladiators crowd the arena --

We stay with Maximus as he wades through his opponents,
fighting them heroically, slashing through them without
stopping --

The large crowd cheers mightily -- chants of "Spaniard!
Spaniard! Spaniard!"

We stay with Maximus as he cuts through the four Celts
like a scythe through wheat and then we dramatically pull
up and away --

Taking in the roaring arena and the hero.

EXT.   PROXIMO'S SCHOOL - COMPOUND - NIGHT

A large mess area has been set up. The tables around the
compound are crowded with gladiators. Guards everywhere.
Maximus and Juba enter. Move to get food. All
conversation gradually drains away as the other gladiators
watch them. Silence.

Maximus and Juba note the strange silence as they move to
a large table.

Vibius is at the table with a number of other gladiators.
There are no places for Maximus and Juba.

Vibius stands and kicks two other gladiators off their
bench.

                                     VIBIUS
              MOVE ASIDE!    THIS IS A TABLE FOR
              MEN!

Maximus and Juba sit.

Vibius remains standing. He begins to pound on the table
with his fist. Soon all the gladiators are pounding on
their tables. It is a cacophonous din honoring Maximus.

INT.   PROXIMO'S SCHOOL - PROXIMO'S CHAMBER - NIGHT

Proximo sits on a terrace overlooking his compound,
sipping wine. Various gladiators can be seen working out
below.

A guard brings Maximus.     Proximo nods for the guard to
leave.

                                   PROXIMO
                     (holding up a plate)
              Butterfly?

The plate is filled with honeyed butterflies, their wings
still moving slightly.

Maximus shakes his head. Proximo pops one into his mouth.
He chews as he looks at Maximus.

                                   PROXIMO
              Perhaps you'd like a woman?

Maximus shakes his head.

                                     PROXIMO
              Boy?

Maximus shakes his head.
A beat.

                                  PROXIMO
              Gold?

Maximus shakes his head.

                                   PROXIMO
              Well, I have nothing left to offer
              you! A man who turns down a
              butterfly, a woman, a boy and gold
              confuses me. Personally, I'd grab
              them all and then grab some more
              because the Gods are fanciful and
              take us at their whim. Does the
              Spaniard have any needs?

Maximus shakes his head.

A beat.   Proximo studies him.

                                   PROXIMO
              You fight like a soldier. You have
              wounds like a soldier who has been
              on long campaigns. You eye the
              world around you like an enemy.
              What is your name, Roman soldier?

                                  MAXIMUS
              Gladiator.

A beat.

                                  PROXIMO
              And nothing more?

                                  MAXIMUS
              Nothing more.

A beat.

Proximo watches Maximus very closely for the following:

                                   PROXIMO
              In two days we leave for Rome.

Maximus' eyes suddenly flash to Proximo.    He is
transfixed, his eyes burning.

                                   PROXIMO
              Ah... so it's Rome you want. Well
              you shall have her, Gladiator. The
              new Emperor has ordered a series of
              matches to culminate in a grand
              spectacle. If you do well I shall
              become very, very rich. If you do
              well enough I shall set you free.
              Is it freedom you want?

A beat.

Maximus shakes his head.

                                   PROXIMO
                     (quietly)
              Not even that.

                                   MAXIMUS
                     (barely controlled)
              The Emperor -- will he be there?

                                   PROXIMO
              Oh yes. He's apparently quite mad
              about the games. Spending a
              fortune, which is, needless to say,
              good for me again. But what is good
              for you, Gladiator?

                                   MAXIMUS
              Have you -- how does one meet the
              Emperor?

                                   PROXIMO
              As a gladiator?

                                   MAXIMUS
              Yes.

                                   PROXIMO
              One doesn't.

A beat.   Proximo sees that Maximus' mind is racing.

                                   PROXIMO
              Except... If one has proven oneself
              in battle. If at the end of the
              games you are the final man standing
              -- the Emperor will present you with
              a small wooden sword. The sword is
              your freedom.

                                   MAXIMUS
              He give it personally?
                                   PROXIMO
              He did to me...
                     (Maximus is surprised
                     at this)
              Our great father Marcus Aurelius
              looked into my eyes and touched me
              on the shoulder.

                                   MAXIMUS
              You knew Marcus?

                                  PROXIMO
              I didn't know him. He touched me on
              the shoulder. Just once. But that
              was enough.

A beat.

                                   PROXIMO
              All right, Gladiator. We shall go
              to Rome together and have bloody
              adventures. The Great Whore will
              suckle us until we are fat and happy
              and can't suck another drop. That
              is Rome.

INT./ EXT.   SLAVE WAGON - OUTSIDE ROME - EVENING

Maximus is crouched in the back of an enclosed slave wagon
with Vibius, Juba and a few other gladiators.

In the distance, Rome.

INT.   PALACE - COMMODUS' BEDROOM - NIGHT

Commodus sits on his bed, rubbing his aching head.
Lucilla is preparing a drink for him, a medicinal tonic.

                                   COMMODUS
              All my desires are splitting my head
              to pieces -- there's so much I want
              to do -- but all my efforts to show
              my children they are loved go
              unappreciated by those dragons in
              the Senate --

                                   LUCILLA
                     (mixing tonic)
              Quiet, brother...

Unseen by him, she adds a little special powder to the
drink from a vial secreted in her robe.
                                   LUCILLA
              Leave the Senate to me. Don't
              trouble yourself.

                                   COMMODUS
              All I want is to be a good father to
              my people. Why don't they
              understand that?

She goes to him.

                                    LUCILLA
              Shhh.   The tonic will help...

She takes a sip and then hands it to him.

                                   LUCILLA
              Yes, just drink this down.

She sits on the edge of the bed.   He drinks as:

                                   COMMODUS
              I must take a firmer hand with them.
              They must know their father can be
              firm. As our father was firm with
              us.

                                   LUCILLA
              Our father lost his way. His
              mistake was believing the old songs
              of the "Republic." We know better.
              So let the Senate talk. They have
              no real power.

                                   COMMODUS
              Yes... yes... you always know the
              way. You were always so wise in
              these matters...
                     (he takes her hand)
              You know if I didn't have my duty to
              Rome I think I should be an artist.
              I should go away and paint pictures
              of the sea and leave all the
              politics to you...

A beat.   He is sleepy, he lies back on his bed.

                                   COMMODUS
              Will you stay with me?

                                   LUCILLA
                       (smiles gently)
                Still afraid of the dark, brother?

                                     COMMODUS
                Still.   Always.

A beat.

                                     COMMODUS
                My dreams would terrify the world.

A beat.

                                     LUCILLA
                I'll stay with you until you are
                asleep.

                                     COMMODUS
                       (falling asleep)
                And after... just sit with me.   Keep
                me safe...

He is asleep.

She watches him for a moment and then rises.

She goes.

INT.   PALACE - HALLWAY - NIGHT

Lucilla moves down a long corridor in the palace and blows
out candles as she goes.

She finally arrives at her own chamber and enters...

INT.   PALACE - LUCILLA'S CHAMBERS - NIGHT

Senators Gracchus and Gaius and Captain Marcellus are
waiting.

                                      LUCILLA
                He's asleep.   Be quick.

                                     GRACCHUS
                We've taking a sounding, the Senate
                is with us.

                                     LUCILLA
                Good.

                                     GRACCHUS
                But we are only words. We are air.
              We need steel.

                                   MARCELLUS
              The City Guard is faithful to the
              Republic. But we don't stand a
              chance against the Praetorians.

                                    LUCILLA
              Can they be bought?

                                   MARCELLUS
              They are zealots -- totally
              committed to your brother.

                                   GRACCHUS
              Well, can they at least be rented
              for a day?

                                   MARCELLUS
              I doubt it. He pays them exorbitant
              salaries and lets them loot and
              extort as they see fit. The city
              belongs to them.

                                   LUCILLA
              And they've started arresting
              scholars now. Anyone who dares
              speak out -- even satirists and
              chroniclers.

                                   MARCELLUS
              And mathematicians and Christians.
              All to fill the arena.

                                   GAIUS
              And what pays for it? These games
              are costing a fortune and yet we
              have no new taxes.

                                    LUCILLA
              The future.   The future pays for
              it...

A beat.   She looks at them.

                                   LUCILLA
              He's started selling the grain
              reserves.

                                    GAIUS
              No.
                                    MARCELLUS
               That can't be true...

                                    LUCILLA
               He's selling Rome's reserves of
               grain. The people will be starving
               in two years. I hope they are
               enjoying the spectacles because soon
               enough they will be dead because of
               them.

                                      MARCELLUS
               Rome must know this.

                                    LUCILLA
               And who will tell them?! You,
               Marcellus? You, Senator Gaius?
               Will you make a speech on the Senate
               floor denouncing my brother? And
               then see your family in the
               Colosseum? What town-crier would
               dare?

A long beat.

                                      LUCILLA
               He must die.

A beat as her words sink in.

                                    GAIUS
               The Praetorians would only seize
               control themselves.

                                    LUCILLA
               No -- cut off the head and the snake
               cannot strike.

                                    GRACCHUS
               Lucilla, Gaius is right. Until the
               City Guard can neutralize the
               Praetorians we can accomplish
               nothing.

                                    MARCELLUS
               And I haven't enough men.

                                      LUCILLA
               What about the army?

                                    GAIUS
               No Roman army has entered the
             capital in a hundred years.

                                   LUCILLA
             So we do nothing?!

A door opens, a voice...

                                   LUCIUS' VOICE
             Mother...

An eight-year-old boy stands in a doorway, sleepy.    He is
LUCIUS, Lucilla's son.

                                   LUCIUS
             I heard voices...

                                  LUCILLA
                    (going to him)
             It's all right, darling, you --

Lucius suddenly notices Senator Gracchus:

                                  LUCIUS
                    (running to Gracchus)
             Senator! What did you bring me?!

He leaps onto Gracchus -- Gracchus laughs and pulls
something from his robe.

                                  GRACCHUS
             For you prince Lucius... a sea
             monster!

Gracchus gives Lucius a beautifully painted toy of a sea
serpent.

                                  GRACCHUS
             Off the coast of Achaea they grow
             twenty times this size, with
             snapping teeth to devour any nasty
             Praetorians they come across... now,
             where is Achaea?

                                   LUCIUS
             Below Macedonia!

                                   GRACCHUS
             Show me on the map.

Lucius runs to a map and stabs his finger at Achaea.   We
sense this is an old game between them.
                                   LUCILLA
              Lucius, you go in now, I'll be in
              shortly.

                                   LUCIUS
                     (to Gracchus)
              Thank you, Senator Mountain!

                                   GRACCHUS
              You're welcome, Prince Anthill!

Lucius goes. Lucilla shuts the door after him. A moment.
She turns to the others, a deep anguish in her eyes.

                                   LUCILLA
              What are you going to do?

Gracchus goes to her, holds her.

                                   GRACCHUS
              Peace child... One dark night the
              Gods will light our path. They will
              give us the voice we need. Have
              faith in that. Have faith.

INT./ EXT.   ROMAN STREETS - SLAVE WAGON - NIGHT

Maximus cranes for a sight of the Eternal City through a
hole in the wooden slats that cover the slave cart.

He can see only glimpses of Rome as they pass. But the
images are not what he expected. Alongside the undeniable
glory of the city, the madness and disease Marcus Aurelius
spoke of are readily apparent.

Maximus sees flashes of plague victims being tossed on
carts heaped with bodies -- he sees getting and spending
and commerce everywhere -- he sees fascist Praetorian
Guard units trooping past -- he sees the magnificent
architecture of the city -- he sees starving children
begging from filthy gutters -- he sees rich citizens out
for a stroll -- he sees a swirling combination of
sophistication and depravity, of civilization and
corruption.

He sits back in the cart, deep in thought.   Vibius looks
at him.

                                   VIBIUS
              Not what you expected?

                                   MAXIMUS
              No.

                                   VIBIUS
              Rome is nothing but a slaughter
              house. And we are the meat.

EXT.   PROXIMO'S COMPOUND - NIGHT

The slave wagon pulls up to Proximo's rather grand Roman
compound. Guards unlock imposing gates and the wagon
drives in...

EXT.   PROXIMO'S COMPOUND - COURTYARD - NIGHT

Inside the gates is a large courtyard, much like Proximo's
Moroccan school but much more impressive. A fountain with
an enormous statue of the war god Mars is central in the
courtyard.

The gladiators climb from the wagon, stretching after the
long journey. Vibius leads Maximus and Juba to the
statue. He wades through the fountain and kisses the toe
of Mars.

                                    VIBIUS
              Tradition.   He watches over us.

Juba steps up and kisses the toe.

                                   VIBIUS
                     (to Maximus)
              Oh go on, it won't kill you.

Maximus kisses the toe as well.

                                   PROXIMO
                     (calling to them)
              Stop that! You'll get some
              monstrous disease and then you'll be
              worth nothing to me!

Guards come and lead them to their cells, which line one
side of the courtyard.

INT.   PROXIMO'S COMPOUND - CELL - NIGHT

Later. Maximus and Juba again share a cell. It is more
comfortable than their cell in Morocco, befitting Maximus'
new status as one of the "stars." A high, barred window
on one wall opens to the city. Another barred window is
directly over them, twenty feet above.
Maximus pulls himself up to the side window, he looks out.

And sees at last... The Colosseum.

It is a breathtaking sight. Monolithic Albert Speer-like
columns of light shine up from the Colosseum. It seems to
illuminate the whole city and the heavens above.

Maximus drops back to the floor.

                                  JUBA
             Do you think it will be much
             different? Here in Rome?

                                   MAXIMUS
             Bigger arena.   Same killing.

A beat.

                                  JUBA
             Are you scared for tomorrow?

                                     MAXIMUS
             No.

A beat.

                                     JUBA
             Me too.

A beat.

                                  JUBA
             I never though it would be so easy
             to kill.

A beat.

                                  JUBA
             So you're finally home.

                                     MAXIMUS
             This isn't my home.

                                  JUBA
             For all Romans... this is home.

A beat.

                                     JUBA
                    (quietly)
             Among my people we honor the soil of
               our home. Our ancestors are in that
               soil. All their dreams live there.
               I will never see my home again. The
               soil is dead and no one honors them,
               so the dreams die.

A beat.

                                    MAXIMUS
               Perhaps one day you'll return.

Juba looks at him.

                                    JUBA
               How can I go back? I am not what I
               was. When a man kills for no
               reason, he has lost himself.

A long beat.

Juba leans his head back and quietly begins to sing.   A
haunting lament in his native tongue.

EXT.   COLOSSEUM - DAY

A flurry of images from around the Colosseum, the energy
mounting. At this point we see practically nothing of the
inside of the Colosseum:

Slaves are balancing high above the empty arena. They are
on ropes unrolling huge rolls of muslin; sun tarps that
provide shade below...

Merchants open stalls in the curved arcade around outside
of the Colosseum. They sell everything from food to magic
elixirs, from toys to aphrodisiacs. They immediately
start declaiming and demonstrating the virtues of their
products...

Gangs of whores of both sexes trawl the streets. They
have bizarrely-colored hair and elaborate makeup...

Citizens begin arriving, pushing past the vendors and the
pickpockets. We see whole families with picnic lunches...

Ferocious animals are brought into the Colosseum in barred
cages...

In the busy arcade, barbers and blood-letters practice
their craft alongside exotic alchemists, fire eaters and
contortionists...
Richer citizens arrive in sedan chairs and chariots, they
feign indifference to the hooting mob...

Mounted City Guard police units try to retain some
order...

Gamblers crowd betting booths and haggle mercilessly...

Finally, we see Maximus and the other gladiators in a
slave cart. Maximus watches everything as the slave cart
disappears into the Colosseum...

INT.   COLOSSEUM - ROUTE TO HOLDING CELLS - DAY

The interior of the Colosseum is a busy world unto itself.

Maximus and the others are lead by Proximo's guards down a
long ramp and past countless animal cages. Gamblers
circulate everywhere and observe the warriors, angling for
the best odds and the best matches.

Maximus and the others are led even deeper into the bowels
of the Colosseum to a new whole subterranean realm.
Numerous cells line the walls. Racks and racks of
weaponry and armor.

And, most   striking, everywhere around them is the heavy
machinery   of the spectacles above. Huge "elevator"
platforms   and ramps and pulleys and counterweights are
manned by   teams of sweating slaves.

INT.   COLOSSEUM - HOLDING CELLS - DAY

Finally, Proximo's guards lead the gladiators to their
holding cells. These cells are right at the edge of the
arena. Barred windows offer a sand-level view of the
action.

Maximus immediately goes to a window and looks out.

He cannot see much of the entire arena, but what he does
see transfixes him.

A band of Christians are huddled together. An eerie
silence from the Colosseum but for the prayers of the
Christians.

Maximus watches them. One little girl peels past her
mother's arm. She sees Maximus. She smiles.

Suddenly a dozen ferocious lions race up a ramp by Maximus
-- they roar into the arena --
We do not see the carnage. We watch Maximus' face as we
hear the sounds of the slaughter.

And the sound of the roaring crowd.

Maximus finally cannot watch.   He drops his head.

INT.   COLOSSEUM - TRAINER'S LAIR - DAY

Proximo is with a dozen other gladiator trainers and the
Colosseum's orator and majordomo, CASSIUS. They are
haggling in an secluded area not far from the arena
itself. Huge chalkboards chart the day's matches and
wagers and odds.

Colosseum touts continually erase and mark new figures on
the chalkboards to keep up with the swiftly changing
bouts.

The roar of the lions and the unnerving screams of the
Christians can clearly be heard.

                                   CASSIUS
              ... and the Emperor will have no
              more animal battles today --

Upset roars from some of the trainers.

                                   TRAINER #1
              You promised me a bear match,
              Cassius!

                                   TRAINER #2
              I have ten damned gorillas! You
              said gorillas yesterday!

                                   CASSIUS
              Talk to the man in the imperial box.
              Who has the next slot...?
                     (he checks the
                     boards)
              -- Lentulus, Gideon, Trebonius and
              Proximo --
                     (to Proximo)
              -- Nice to have you back, you
              piratical bastard -- now listen, the
              Emperor wants the Carthage
              spectacle.

The four trainers explode in a flurry of resistance --
                     PROXIMO
No -- have pity, Cassius -- !

                     TRAINER #3
My men are too good for -- !

                     CASSIUS
You give us the Carthage match or
lose your spot on the rotation --
but don't worry -- gold is flowing
from the Emperor's fingers.

                    TRAINER #3
It'll cost you --

                     PROXIMO
I won't do it for less than 100,000
sesterces -- !

                    TRAINER #4
120,000! All I have is my best
Thracians!

                    CASSIUS
       (to Proximo)
And I want to see this famous
Spaniard of yours -- his reputation
soars from the provinces. The
people are eager for him --

                     PROXIMO
I won't throw my Spaniard into a
spectacle! Damn you and damn the
rotation!

                     CASSIUS
You will and the price will be
90,000 sesterces each --
       (to all)
-- which you all know is exorbitant
-- AND IF YOU EXTORTING BLOOD-WHORES
TRY TO PAWN OFF LESSER FIGHTERS ON
ME I WILL SEE YOU DEAD IN THE ARENA
TOMORROW!

                     TRAINER #4
My Thracians are worth -- !

                     CASSIUS
Give me your best, brothers.    They
die before Caesar.
He strides back to the arena. The touts instantly begin
making new marks on the boards to represent the mysterious
"Carthage Spectacle" as some of the trainers hurry out.

Proximo walks with Trainer #4:

                                   PROXIMO
              I give you 30,000 my Spaniard will
              kill at least one of your Thracians.

                                   TRAINER #4
              30,000?! On a Spaniard?! That
              provincial sun has curdled your
              brain!

                                   PROXIMO
              Then make the wager, you smug
              bastard!

They disappear down a dark corridor, negotiating all the
while.

INT.   COLOSSEUM - HOLDING CELLS - DAY

Maximus, Juba, Vibius and another of Proximo's gladiators
are being armed. They all wear mask-like helmets.

Proximo hurries to them.

                                   PROXIMO
              All right -- there are three other
              teams, four men each --
                     (to Maximus)
              You know what a Thracian looks like?

                                   MAXIMUS
              Yes, but --

                                   PROXIMO
              Ignore the others -- go for the
              Thracians. The sun is to the east
              -- over the gate -- keep your back
              to the gate and you won't have the
              sun.

                                   MAXIMUS
              What -- ?

Trumpets begin sounding from the arena.

                                   PROXIMO
              Hurry -- !
The guards quickly bustle the four toward a gate leading
to a dark tunnel to the arena.

                                   PROXIMO
              Die well and we'll sing songs about
              you for a generation.

Short swords are shoved into their hands and the gate
rises. They are pushed into the dark tunnel leading to
the arena. The gate closes behind them.

The four gladiators stand for a moment and then slowly
walk down the tunnel to...

EXT.   COLOSSEUM - ARENA - DAY

At last we see it.

The mighty Colosseum Arena.

Nothing we could have possibly imagined could have
prepared us for the sight of the thousands and thousands
of screaming spectators, the row after row of cheering
faces.

It is staggering.

But for Maximus none of this exists. His full attention
is focused on one spot alone. The Imperial Box.

He can see Commodus and Lucilla sitting in the box. The
box is elevated fifteen feet above the arena floor at the
top of a sheer black marble wall. A cohort of fifty
imposing Praetorian Guard Archers surround the box.
Commodus' personal Body Guard of six Centurions actually
stand in the box itself, eyes constantly watching like
modern Secret Service agents.

Commodus is untouchable.

Meanwhile, three teams move from different entrances to
the arena.

As Cassius orates to the crowd:

                                   CASSIUS
              This day we reach back to hallowed
              antiquity to bring you... THE FALL
              OF MIGHTY CARTHAGE...!
                     (the crowd cheers)
              ... On the barren armies of the
             barbarian Hannibal! Ferocious
             mercenaries and warriors of all
             brute nations bent on merciless
             conquest! Your Emperor is pleased
             to give you... THE BARBARIAN HORDE!

He gestures to the gladiators in the arena.   The crowd
laughs, jeering the "barbarians."

The drummers begin pounding out a more insistent, heroic
beat.

                                  CASSIUS
             But on that illustrious day the Gods
             sent against them Rome's greatest
             warriors...! The very life-image of
             nobility and glorious valor... who
             would on this day, and on these same
             arid Numidian deserts, decide THE
             FATE OF THE EMPIRE... Your Emperor
             is pleased to give you... THE
             LEGIONNAIRES OF SCIPIO AFRICANUS!!

The crowd EXPLODES in cheers as the huge doors at one end
of the arena suddenly burst open and ten chariots thunder
in --

Each chariot has a driver and an archer, both dressed in
theatrical versions of the familiar Roman Lorica
Segmentata.

A chaos of dust -- and the battle is on --

The chariots zoom around the arena -- the archers keeping
up a deadly hail of arrows.

Maximus immediately dives onto a passing chariot and kills
the charioteer and archer -- he dramatically leaps from
the front of the chariot to a lead horse and cuts it free.

And Maximus takes control, we see the General of the Felix
Regiment gloriously alive again as he barks out orders and
leads his gladiators in battle. They follow him
faithfully, his stern commands unquestioned.

His strategies are quick and smart, he makes the
gladiators work together.

This kind of slaughter could last for hours...

We see flashes of the endless battle... Maximus races on
his horse past another chariot, kills the driver, the
chariot smashes into a wall... the sun sinks lower, the
shadows on the sand lengthen... areas of the sand are
swamps of blood, Juba slips, pulls himself up fighting...
Maximus uses Vibius to create a diversion, two chariots
collide... the crowd roars... a gladiator is dragged
between a chariot and the side wall of the arena... the
drummers pound out their relentless tattoo...

Finally...

Maximus is on his horse across from the final chariot.

We can see that Juba and Vibius and a few other gladiators
are still alive. The rest of the arena is polluted with
the dead and injured.

Maximus spurs his horse and gallops toward the final
chariot -- the charioteer whips his horses and zooms
toward Maximus --

The crowd is breathless -- watching the final battle --

Maximus and the chariot speed toward each other -- like
Medieval jousters --

And collide in a flashing explosion of steel --

Maximus sails from his horse -- as the charioteer sails
from his chariot --

Maximus lands hard but quickly pulls himself up, he races
to the final charioteer. The charioteer is defeated but
not dead.

Maximus glances around, all his opponents are defeated.

He stands over the final charioteer.   Then he simply
tosses down his sword.

The crowd is stunned by this strange act of mercy. But
then an enormous roar grows from the crowd -- wave after
wave of adulation for the hero of the day.

Maximus looks around, taking it all in.

Then he turns to the Imperial Box.

Maximus slowly walks to before the the Imperial Box. The
Praetorian Archers immediately raise their bows, pointing
down at him.

Maximus glares up at Commodus through his helmet mask.
Commodus returns his gaze, curious.

The crowd is intrigued, growing quiet.    What is going on?

Then Maximus simply turns and begins walking away.

                                     COMMODUS
             Slave!   Who are you?

The Colosseum is suddenly silent.    The Emperor is speaking
to a gladiator.

Maximus keeps walking.

                                     COMMODUS
             SLAVE!   WHO ARE YOU?

Maximus keeps walking, his fists clenched now.

Commodus suddenly grabs a spear from a nearby Praetorian
and hurls it with perfect aim -- the crowd gasps -- the
spear sails past Maximus -- actually nicking his shoulder
-- it slices into the sand ahead of Maximus.

Maximus stops.

                                   COMMODUS
             SLAVE!   WHO ARE YOU?!

Maximus can hold it no longer. He spins to Commodus --
ripping off his helmet mask -- and THUNDERING:

                                  MAXIMUS
             I AM MAXIMUS MERIDAS, GENERAL OF THE
             FELIX REGIMENT OF THE ROMAN ARMY AND
             SERVANT TO THE EMPEROR MARCUS
             AURELIUS!

Commodus eyes shoot wide -- Lucilla bolts up -- Gracchus
leans forward -- Proximo is stunned -- the crowd is
mystified --

                                  MAXIMUS
             I AM FATHER TO A MURDERED SON AND
             HUSBAND TO A MURDERED WIFE AND
             LANDLORD TO A MURDERED WORLD -- AND
             I WILL HAVE VENGEANCE!

The Praetorian Archers tense their bows -- ready to kill
the defiant slave --

But something extraordinary stops them.    Almost as one
being the crowd roars -- they leaps to their feet and
thrust their thumbs up! They cheer and stomp their
approval of Maximus.

Commodus looks around at the people of Rome, amazed.

He finally plasters on a benevolent smile and thrusts his
thumb up! The Praetorians lower their bows.

And the crowd cheers. Never in the long, long history of
the Colosseum have they ever seen such a thing.

Maximus leads his gladiators out of the arena.

INT.   PALACE - THRONE ROOM - NIGHT

To our great surprise, Commodus is not raging. He sits
quietly on the polished marble floor in front of a model
of the Colosseum. He moves model pieces around in the
Colosseum, planning his festival.

Lucilla stands, tense.

                                   COMMODUS
              Why is he still alive?

                                      LUCILLA
              I don't know.

                                   COMMODUS
              He shouldn't be alive. That vexes
              me. I am terribly vexed...

Lucilla watches her brother cautiously, expecting the
explosion. He carefully moves some model pieces in the
arena.

                                   COMMODUS
              There, that's better. Do you like
              the platform here?

                                      LUCILLA
              Mmm.

                                    COMMODUS
              I do too.   Simple, elegant...

Lucilla is growing more and more unnerved at Commodus'
unusual serenity.

                                   COMMODUS
              Father would have wanted something
              more ornate but he's dead now.

A beat.   Commodus laughs.   A beat.

                                   COMMODUS
              Maximus Meridas haunts me. I see
              Father turning away from me and
              gazing at him. How many times did I
              suffer that indignity, I wonder?

                                   LUCILLA
              What are you going to do?

                                   COMMODUS
              I'm going to kill him.

                                       LUCILLA
              Good.

                                   COMMODUS
                     (glances at her)
              Oh, you're too clever, Sister.
              Don't tell me part of you won't weep
              for him.

                                   LUCILLA
              When he defies my brother the
              Emperor, he defies me. But you
              shouldn't send assassins.

                                       COMMODUS
              No?

                                   LUCILLA
              The people embraced him today. They
              will be expecting his next match...
                     (she kneels next to
                     him)
              ... let him die in the arena like
              the slave he is. Let the people see
              what comes of defying Caesar.

A beat as he looks at her.

                                   COMMODUS
              He wounded you deeply, didn't he?
              Long ago.

She does not answer.

                                   COMMODUS
              Nonetheless, your political acumen
              is, as always, unerring.

He picks up a model tiger and puts it in the arena.   He
looks at the model tiger and smiles.

INT.   PROXIMO'S COMPOUND - CELL - NIGHT

Maximus silently awaits Commodus' assassins with Juba.
They hear footsteps outside the cell. Maximus stands,
preparing for death.

                                   JUBA
                     (also standing)
              I will fight with you.

                                   MAXIMUS
              This isn't your battle.

                                   JUBA
              Better to die for a friend than to
              die for gold.

The door swings open and they are surprised to see Proximo
sweeping in with a cloaked woman. The woman gives Proximo
a bag of money.

                                   PROXIMO
              Enjoy yourself, Madame...
                     (he glances to
                     Maximus)
              General, perform well and there will
              be riches for you.

He beckons to Juba, they go, shutting the door behind
them. The woman pulls off her cloak, it is Lucilla.

Maximus glares at her, his muscles tensing.

                                   LUCILLA
              Rich matrons pay well to be
              pleasured by the bravest champions.

Maximus backs up, fighting the urge to strangle her on the
spot. He finally bumps into a wall of the cell.

                                   MAXIMUS
              I knew your brother would send
              assassins. I didn't think he would
              send his best.

                                   LUCILLA
              Maximus, listen to me --
                                   MAXIMUS
              My family were crucified and burnt
              while they were still alive.

                                   LUCILLA
              I knew nothing of that.

                                     MAXIMUS
                     (low)
              Don't lie to me.

                                     LUCILLA
              I wept for them.

                                     MAXIMUS
              Don't.

A long, tense moment.

She does not look at him.

                                   LUCILLA
              Do you know what it is to be the
              daughter of the Emperor? I learned
              on the night my father had my
              husband killed. I loved my husband
              very much. Very... simply. He was
              a man who believed in the Republic.
              He was a man who thought Marcus
              should be tending to Rome and not
              conquering the world. One night my
              father had him strangled for
              conspiring with the Senate. My
              father never spoke of it. I never
              spoke of it. That is what it is to
              be the daughter of Rome.

She finally looks up at Maximus.

                                   LUCILLA
              My son will live. He will survive
              this cursed bloodline. Rome will
              die and the jackals will pick her
              clean -- but my son will survive.
              Empires come and go. Cities crumble
              to dust. Only family matters.

A beat.   Despite himself, Maximus is moved.

                                     MAXIMUS
              My son was innocent.
                                    LUCILLA
              So is mine.

A beat.

                                   MAXIMUS
              I want your brother dead.

                                    LUCILLA
              So do I.

A beat.   Maximus is surprised at her direct answer.

                                   LUCILLA
              My son will never be safe while he
              lives.

A beat.

                                    MAXIMUS
              How do you plan it?

                                   LUCILLA
              The Senate is with us, and the City
              Guard. We have growing power in the
              streets. But we need a leader.
              Someone the people can --

                                   MAXIMUS
              So the crown passes to your son.

                                   LUCILLA
              No. So that my son will be safe.
              So that we may leave this charnel
              house forever and never look back.
              Look into my eyes, Maximus, and
              believe what I say to you...

She rivets him intensely with her eyes.

                                   LUCILLA
              By all the Gods, and in the name of
              my father who loved you, and in the
              name of the husband I loved... I
              swear to stand by your side in this
              now and always.

A beat.

                                   MAXIMUS
              What is your son's name?
                                     LUCILLA
               Lucius Verus.   Like his father.

                                    MAXIMUS
               I weep for him.

A long beat.   Maximus' cold eyes give away nothing.

Lucilla turns and starts to go.    She stops, not looking
back.

                                    LUCILLA
               Commodus plans to kill you in your
               next match in the arena. He's
               planning something. I will pray for
               you. As I have always done.

She then pulls something from her robes and sets it down,
a little bundle wrapped in cloth. She sweeps out. The
sound of the door being bolted shut on the other side.

Maximus stands for a moment and then goes to what she has
left. He opens the cloth. Inside are his six "ancestor"
figures.

He picks up one of the figures. He looks at it deeply,
gently feeling along the contours with a finger.

EXT.   COLOSSEUM - ARENA - DAY

The Colosseum is again packed. Commodus, Lucilla and her
son Lucius are in the Imperial Box.

It is late in the day and teams of slaves are cleaning the
arena after a bout. They haul off carcasses and toss down
fresh sand.

Meanwhile, Cassius is orating to the crowd:

                                    CASSIUS
               ... in his majestic charity the
               Emperor has deigned to this day
               favor the people of Rome with an
               historical final match. Returning
               to the Colosseum today... after five
               years in retirement... Caesar is
               pleased to bring you... THE ONLY
               UNDEFEATED CHAMPION IN ROMAN
               HISTORY...
                      (the crowd is going
                      mad)
              ... THE LEGENDARY... TIGER OF GAUL!!

The crowd erupts in paroxysms of joy as TIGER explodes
into the arena in an ornate chariot. Tiger is a fierce
man in his 40's, his brutal, scarred face and hugely
muscled body a testament to his many years in the arena.

Tiger speeds around the rim of the arena in his chariot,
raising an arm in triumph. The crowd roars.

INT.   COLOSSEUM - HOLDING CELLS - DAY

Proximo stands with Maximus, who is busy strapping on
armor.

                                   PROXIMO
              Gods! That old Homicide! The
              Emperor must truly hate you.

                                   MAXIMUS
              What can you tell me?

                                   PROXIMO
              He cheats.

INT.   COLOSSEUM - ARENA - DAY

Tiger waits. He stands in the center of the arena.   He
has only a traditional short sword. The crowd is
breathless with anticipation. As:

                                   CASSIUS
                     (orating)
              And from the rocky promontories and
              martial bloodlines of Spain...
              representing the training lyceum of
              Proximo Antoninus... I give you...
              THE WARRIOR MAXIMUS!

The crowd cheers. Maximus appears from his gate. His
fans have increased in number considerably. They eagerly
crane forward and celebrate him.

Meanwhile, Maximus looks at Tiger. Only one man with a
sword? Maximus approaches, cautious but confident.

He stops a few feet from Tiger. They lock eyes, salute
each other and then turn to the Imperial Box, raising
their swords.

The crowd waits eagerly for the immortal words...
                                  MAXIMUS AND TIGER
             We who are about to die salute you.

The crowd cheers and Maximus immediately turns and starts
slashing -- Tiger easily blocks and strikes back --

The sword play is very fast -- they block and parry and
hack like lightning -- constantly attacking -- they are
perfectly matched --

As he fights Maximus becomes aware of a strange sound over
the roar of the crowd -- a low rumbling -- then he feels
something -- a vibration in the ground --

Suddenly traps doors swing open and four enormous
platforms rise into view. On each platform is a snarling
Bengal tiger restrained by a chain. Tiger's teams of
"cornermen" hold the chains through a pulley system. The
cornermen are safely inside cages. The platforms stop at
ground level.

The four ferocious tigers now mark the four corners of the
battleground.

Tiger takes advantage of Maximus' momentary confusion and
assaults brutally -- forcing him back toward one of the
tigers -- the tiger claws for Maximus -- Maximus just
evades it claws -- rolls for a new position -- another
tiger snaps at him --

Tiger attacks -- Maximus is on the defensive -- fighting
off Tiger and evading the four snarling beasts --

And then all four tigers are suddenly closer. The teams
of cornermen are letting the chains play out, bit by bit,
gradually reducing the size of the battle ground. The
crowd roars.

But the fight is hardly fair.

Whenever Tiger is near one of the tigers the cornermen
pull back the tiger slightly -- when Maximus is near a
tiger they let it out a bit.

Maximus and Tiger fight -- swirling action -- finally,
Maximus has the edge -- he circles so that the sun stabs
into Tiger's eyes -- then Maximus lunges forward under
Tiger's swinging sword and SLAMS into him -- they fall --
a tiger swats at Maximus' face -- he jerks his head back
-- he shoots out a leg and kicks Tiger's sword toward one
of the tigers -- it is out of reach -- Maximus leaps up
and stands over the winded Tiger, sword to his throat.
Tiger is gasping for breath, crushed.

Then one of Tiger's corners suddenly cheats -- they
completely release a tiger -- it leaps for Maximus --

Maximus barely has time to turn -- the tiger crashes into
him -- its claws slashing into his back, cutting through
his leather armor -- Maximus shoves an armored forearm
into the tiger's jaws and stabs with his sword --

Tiger takes this chance to pull himself up -- one of his
corners throws him another sword -- the crowd boos --

Maximus wrestles with the tiger -- spinning it around with
superhuman effort so it is always between himself and
Tiger -- so that Tiger can't get at him --

Maximus finally kills the tiger and leaps for Tiger -- he
quickly disarms him and tosses him to the ground --

Maximus stands over him -- ready to administer the coup de
grace.

All eyes turn to the Emperor.

Commodus slowly stands and steps to the edge of the
Imperial Box. He raises his arm and gives the fatal
thumbs down.

Maximus looks up at him.

And then defiantly tosses the sword to the ground,
refusing to kill Tiger.

Commodus is stunned.

The crowd gasps -- a collective intake of breath -- and
then an enormous roar building. It cascades around the
Colosseum. It is a roaring celebration of the unexpected
act of mercy. And the delicious act of defiance of the
Emperor.

Commodus slowly sits.

Maximus walks across the arena -- the people stand and
cheer for him. Cries of "Maximus the Merciful" can be
heard.

It is the birth of a hero.

INT.   COLOSSEUM - HOLDING CELLS - DAY
Maximus is resting in his cell after the battle, head
down, deep in thought.

                                  LUCIUS' VOICE
             Is it true you're a General...?

Maximus looks up, Lucius is standing at his cell. Maximus
has no idea who the boy is -- just another young fan --
but Maximus is immediately struck by Lucius' resemblance
to his own son.

                                  MAXIMUS
             I was a General.

                                 LUCIUS
             I saw you fight. The Carthage
             battle too. I've never seen so much
             courage.

                                  MAXIMUS
             It doesn't take courage to kill.

                                  LUCIUS
             My father was killed.

A beat.

                                  MAXIMUS
             I'm sorry.

                                  LUCIUS
             He still comes to me in my dreams.
             Do you have a father?

                                  MAXIMUS
             I had a father. He wasn't really my
             father but I cared for him very much.

                                  LUCIUS
             I hope he comes to you in your
             dreams. My father and I ride horses
             in mine.

These simple words strike something deep in Maximus.

Lucilla appears from the shadows and puts her hands on
Lucius' shoulders.

                                  LUCILLA
             Lucius, run along now. I need to
             talk to the General.
Lucius runs off to his Male ATTENDANT, who leads him away.

A long beat as Maximus and Lucilla look at each other.

Finally:

                                    MAXIMUS
              Where is my army?

A drum beat is heard. It increases throughout the
following scenes, building momentum like a Roman gallery
accelerating to ramming speed.

The conspiracy scenes are enclosed in a montage of scenes
in and around the arena showing Maximus' growing
popularity with the People of Rome...

EXT.   COLOSSEUM - ARENA - DAY

Maximus is fighting an opponent.

The drums continue...

INT.   THE SENATE - DAY

Lucilla conspires with Senators Gracchus and Gaius and
Captain Marcellus in a dark corner of the Senate.
Whispers.

                                   LUCILLA
              ... Maximus will summon his army
              from Ostia and he will strike from
              the inside as his army strikes from
              the outside. But he insists that
              the Senate be present.

                                   GAIUS
              We've been ordered to attend.

                                   LUCILLA
              How many are with us?

                                    GRACCHUS
              About half.   But once the tyrant is
              dead. All.

A beat.

                                    GRACCHUS
              I want to meet him.
                                     LUCILLA
              I'll arrange it.

                                   GAIUS
              And what of the Emperor?

A beat.

                                   LUCILLA
              He has withdrawn. He's not eating.
              He doesn't go out. He won't even
              see me... I don't know what tempests
              rage within him but...

                                   GRACCHUS
              We should fear for the blackest
              storm.

                                     LUCILLA
              Yes.

A beat.

                                   GAIUS
              One question... who is to be the
              actual Regicide?

A beat.   She glances at him.

The drums continue...

EXT.   COLOSSEUM - ARENA - DAY

Maximus defeats his opponent.    He stands over him.   He
does not kill him.

He tosses his sword down and walks away. The crowd goes
crazy, roaring their approval of Maximus.

Senator Falco, sits in the stands and watches with some
alarm. He glances around as the crowd exalts Maximus. He
is becoming a hero to the people.

The drums continue...

INT.   COLOSSEUM - HOLDING CELLS - DAY

Maximus returns to the holding cells.    Vibius and Juba are
waiting.

                                     VIBIUS
              You didn't kill him.
                                   MAXIMUS
              I will not kill another warrior.
              There is no honor to it.

Maximus goes. Vibius thinks about it, listening to the
adulation of the crowd.

The drums continue...

INT./ EXT.   SLAVE WAGON - ROMAN STREETS - DAY

Maximus and the other gladiators are in a slave cart on
the way from the arena. A gang of children run alongside
the cart, cheering and chanting:

                                   KIDS
              Maximus the Merciful! Maximus the
              Merciful!

The drums continue...

INT.   PROXIMO'S COMPOUND - CELL - NIGHT

Maximus and Juba are with Lucilla and Gracchus.    Lucilla
is writing on a piece of parchment.

                                   MAXIMUS
              Tell him we will enter Rome on the
              first day of Commodus' festival.

                                   LUCILLA
              And they will march on Rome for you?

                                   MAXIMUS
              Yes. But this letter must go to the
              lieutenant named Titus, no one else.

                                   LUCILLA
              Captain Marcellus will take it. And
              his City Guard will by with you when
              you get to Rome. Is that enough to
              face the Praetorian Guard?

                                   MAXIMUS
                     (looks to her)
              The Felix Regiment will never be
              defeated.

A beat.

                                   GRACCHUS
               I only have one question for you,
               General... Why?

A beat.

                                    GRACCHUS
               You will lead an army of your
               brothers on Rome. Many will die.
               Why?

                                    MAXIMUS
               I want Commodus dead.

                                    GRACCHUS
               That's not the reason. Tell me the
               truth.

A beat.

                                    MAXIMUS
               Because one night an old man
               whispered to me about a dream.   I
               will die for that dream.

A long beat.

                                    GRACCHUS
               I knew the old man well. And I
               loved him very much. In our youth
               we would spend hours building that
               dream together. After he went to
               the wars and lost his way... I was
               very cruel. I tormented him to
               remember that dream we spoke of.

                                   MAXIMUS
               He did.

                                    GRACCHUS
               You can have no idea how much that
               means to me.

A beat.

                                    GRACCHUS
               Any man who will die for a whispered
               dream deserves my respect. I honor
               you, General.

The drums continue...

EXT.   COLOSSEUM - ARENA - DAY
Vibius defeats an opponent -- he stands over him. He
looks around at the crowd. Then he tosses down his sword
and walks off.

The crowd goes mad with pleasure. Vibius eats it up,
raising his arms and soaking up the applause.

Maximus watches from the holding cells.    He smiles.

The drums continue...

EXT.   STREET - NIGHT

Proximo supervises as a huge banner is unfurled.   It
covers the side of a tall building.

It shows a dramatic painting of Maximus.

Proximo supervises happily as torches and braziers are lit
to illuminate the mammoth banner.

The drums continue...

EXT.   COLOSSEUM - ARENA - DAY

The ending of a group fight -- Proximo's gladiators
triumphant.

The crowd waits for the delicious act of defiance. We
note many placard and banners honoring "MAXIMUS THE
MERCIFUL."

Maximus, Vibius, Juba and a few other gladiators toss down
their weapons and walk off, leaving their opponents alive.

The crowd roars. They have completely embraced Maximus
and his fellow gladiators.

Gracchus, in the stands, laughs.

The drums finally conclude.

INT.   PALACE - LUCILLA'S CHAMBER - DAY

Lucilla is with her HANDMAIDEN. They sit before a large
mirror, the Handmaiden perfecting Lucilla's makeup for the
day.

One of Commodus' Centurion Body Guards enters, bows.

                                   CENTURION
              Madame, the Emperor would like to
              see you.

Lucilla quickly glances to her Handmaiden in the mirror
and then braces herself, stands, and quickly leaves with
the Centurion.

INT.   PALACE - HALLWAY - DAY

Lucilla strides quickly, nervously, down the long corridor
to Commodus' chambers. She enters...

INT.   PALACE - COMMODUS' BEDROOM - DAY

Commodus is wrapped in a sheet, gazing out a window.

                                   LUCILLA
              Caesar...

He turns.   She stops.

He looks as if he has not slept for days. If a word could
now sum up his clouded face it is this: tormented.

She goes to him, embraces him.   He holds her tightly.

                                   COMMODUS
              I am sorry to have kept you away...
              I needed this time to think...

                                   LUCILLA
              Of course...

He moves away from her, slowly moving around the room.

                                   COMMODUS
              I limited my world to these four
              walls so as to let my mind free...
              again and again my mind settles on
              but one question... What kind of
              world are we making when the people
              of Rome prefer a slave in the arena
              to their father?

A beat. Commodus' strange philosophical bent is unnerving
Lucilla.

                                   COMMODUS
              It is my responsibility to make the
              world as it should be. How is it I
              have made this world?
                                  LUCILLA
             Brother, do not be influenced by the
             mob. They are a great, faceless
             beast --

                                  COMMODUS
             They are not "the mob," Lucilla,
             they are the people. They are my
             children and all I want to do is
             love them.

A beat. He stands before a bust of Marcus Aurelius.   He
touches it.

                                  COMMODUS
             Our father loved Maximus... and I
             love him still... yet he defies me,
             he tasks me in front of my children.
             And they love him for it. Just as
             Marcus loved him for it. Tell me
             why, Lucilla.

                                  LUCILLA
             They see themselves in him. They
             throw in their own sad dreams
             alongside his. They think he fights
             for them.

                                  COMMODUS
             And what do I do but fight for
             them?! I give them games to please
             them. I strangle dissent to give
             them peace. I empower the
             Praetorians to give them order.
             What more can I do?!

A beat.

                                  COMMODUS
             Say I should fight him, in the
             arena. Let my children see who the
             Gods truly favor.

                                  LUCILLA
             And what if he should win?

A beat.

Commodus continues to slowly move around the room.

                                  COMMODUS
             A God is more powerful than a man...
This odd statement hangs in the air for a moment.   Then:

                                   LUCILLA
              Caesar, you let this unduly worry
              you. At best he is a passing fancy
              -- he is a name, an image on a
              banner, ephemeral -- he will be
              forgotten as the next fancy
              appears --

                                   COMMODUS
              But I need to know -- why do they
              love him?

                                  LUCILLA
              Mercy.

He stops.   Looks at her.

                                   LUCILLA
              He will not kill in the arena. He
              is merciful. As they all wish they
              were in their own hearts.

Something in her words has struck a chord in him.

                                   COMMODUS
              And for that moment in the arena
              they are merciful too. For a
              moment... they are Gods. Offering
              life.

He looks at her.

                                   COMMODUS
              But who can be more merciful than
              the Emperor of Rome?

EXT.   COLOSSEUM - ARENA - DAY

Maximus is fighting a thick GIANT of a man. A few quick
blows and the Giant falls -- like a mighty tree he crashes
to the sand.

The arena cheers their hero.

Maximus stands over the beaten Giant.   The crowd waits for
the famous act.

Maximus salutes the Giant and tosses down his sword,
refusing to kill. He walks away.
The arena explodes in cheers -- a chant of "Maximus the
Merciful" grows to deafening proportions.

Suddenly the arena is filled with Praetorians -- they
block Maximus' exit from the arena -- the crowd boos --
horrified --

The Praetorians surround Maximus.   He is unarmed, but
coils for the inevitable battle.

Then the Praetorians part...

And Commodus walks through them. He carries something
wrapped in a rich cloth. Maximus glares at him.

The Praetorians move back and the crowd watches eagerly.
The Emperor and the Gladiator, at last.

Maximus and Commodus stare at each other. The crowd
cannot hear what is said, but strain to observe this
incredible confrontation.

                                  COMMODUS
             Brother... we've taken a sad path
             since we were children at Capri,
             have we not?

Maximus doesn't answer.

                                  COMMODUS
             For my own part... I am sorry it
             came to this. And to you alone of
             all men, I acknowledge my errors.
             And my regret. I shall live with my
             sin for all my days.

                                    MAXIMUS
             As will I, Commodus.    As will I.

Commodus unwraps the cloth bundle. Inside is a small
wooden sword. He holds it up so the crowd can see.

A collective gasp. The wooden sword, prized by all
gladiators above all else. Freedom.

                                  COMMODUS
             As the first act of my contrition I
             offer you the wooden sword of
             freedom.

He holds out the wooden sword.   A beat.
                                  COMMODUS
             Take it, brother. Stand at my side
             as a free man worthy of your
             ancestors.

                                  MAXIMUS
             I only have ancestors because of
             you, brother. You killed everything
             that ever lived alongside me.

A beat.

                                  COMMODUS
             Take it, Maximus. Let us heal that
             fatal wound together.

                                  MAXIMUS
             This is the new home you cursed me
             to. And I am safer here from your
             treachery than I could ever be
             outside.

                                  COMMODUS
             Will you always mistrust me?

                                  MAXIMUS
             Why don't you ask your father that?

Commodus visibly flinches at that, but still holds the
wooden sword out. The crowd is breathless.

                                  MAXIMUS
             I have more power as a slave in the
             arena than I could ever have as a
             free man. As the Colosseum goes,
             the people go. As the people go,
             the Empire goes.

                                  COMMODUS
                    (tense)
             You think this is power? I could
             show you power, slave --

                                  MAXIMUS
             No, Caesar... I will show you.

With that, Maximus does the unimaginable.    He simply turns
his back on the Emperor and walks away.

And the crowd goes mad.   They cheer the defiant gladiator,
their champion.
And, equally, they deride the Emperor. They mock him by
holding out food and trash like Commodus is holding out
the wooden sword. They laugh and jeer.

Commodus glances around at his children, lost.

Then he turns to the Imperial Box. He sees Lucilla
slipping out the back of the box. He watches her go.

And the crowd continues to jeer.

EXT.   STREET THEATER - NIGHT

The crowd laughs riotously as Roman Actors perform a
typically ribald comedy in a secluded street:

An outrageously dressed version of Maximus is parading
around on an outrageously dressed version of Commodus,
riding him like a donkey and slapping his rear with a
wooden sword. The "Commodus" actor mews and brays and
wails like an infant.

Captain Marcellus of the City Guard gallops past them, on
his way out of Rome.

EXT.   PROXIMO'S COMPOUND - COURTYARD - DAY

Maximus stands with Juba and Vibius. He draws a circle in
the sand with a stick. He draws a line to the circle.

                                   MAXIMUS
              The Felix Regiment will come from
              here. We'll face the body of the
              Praetorians outside -- here. Once
              inside, my archers will take up
              position to counter opposition
              inside the Colosseum. I'll enter
              and join you -- we'll attack here --

Maximus draws a line to the Imperial Box.

                                   MAXIMUS
              -- a covert assault from within.

                                   VIBIUS
              We'll be killed.

                                   MAXIMUS
              Probably.

A beat.
                                   MAXIMUS
              But if we aren't... think of the
              glory. Do you remember glory,
              Gladiator?

                                   JUBA
              And if we die that day -- we die
              free men worthy of our ancestors.

                                   VIBIUS
              You didn't know my ancestors.      A
              rotten bunch.

Maximus points to the huge statue of Mars.

                                   MAXIMUS
              Then be worthy of him. The old
              Titan who would rather die bravely
              in a just battle than slink off to
              grow old and fat.

                                    JUBA
              And impotent.

A beat.   Vibius thinks about it.

                                   VIBIUS
              If I die, I want a hundred whores at
              my funeral.

INT.   PALACE - LUCILLA'S CHAMBERS - EVENING

Commodus sweeps in. Thinks Lucilla is standing there.
The woman turns, it is Lucilla's Handmaiden.

                                    COMMODUS
              Where is my sister?

                                    HANDMAIDEN
              She's out, sir...

                                    COMMODUS
              Where?

                                   HANDMAIDEN
              I... don't know, Caesar.

Commodus looks at her for a moment.

And then he slowly walks right to her.     His face an inch
away from hers.
                                     COMMODUS
              Where is my sister?

INT.   PROXIMO'S COMPOUND - PROXIMO'S CHAMBER - NIGHT

Proximo sits, considering Maximus.

                                     MAXIMUS
              Was it Centurion...?    General...?

                                     PROXIMO
              Captain.

A beat.

                                     PROXIMO
              How did you know?

                                   MAXIMUS
              A soldier knows a soldier.

A beat.

                                   PROXIMO
              All that was a long time ago.     Too
              much wine and too many women.     And
              too much money.

                                     MAXIMUS
              No --

                                     PROXIMO
              This is who I am...
                     (he pats his ample
                     belly)
              You see? There was a time I would
              stand against ten men and never give
              an inch, spitting into the jaws of
              Hades all the while. There was a
              time my heart swelled to strap on
              the armor of Rome. But now...

Something flashes across Proximo's eyes, something like
tragedy.

                                   PROXIMO
              Now I am just an entertainer.

A pause.

                                     MAXIMUS
             You said something to me once. You
             said in this life, we all die. All
             we can choose is how we die. And
             how we are remembered. Do you
             recall those words?

                                  PROXIMO
             Yes.

                                  MAXIMUS
             Then be remembered proudly. This is
             your time, Proximo. Stand at my
             side and be what you were. What you
             truly are. One last time.

A beat.

Proximo suddenly begins to weep rather histrionically --
Maximus is a bit taken aback -- Proximo dramatically
flicks tears from his eyes -- and then can't keep the show
up -- he bursts into laughter.

Maximus stares at him.

                                  PROXIMO
                    (laughing)
             You might have spared yourself the
             speech, General. The lady Lucilla
             bought all my gladiators two hours
             ago!

                                  MAXIMUS
             You pox-ridden bastard -- !

                                  PROXIMO
             I am the richest trainer in the
             Empire! And I will let my
             gladiators do anything you like!
             Conspire away, General!

Maximus can only laugh as well.

                                  PROXIMO
             But I tell you -- if you survive
             this madness I want you to go into
             business with me. I'll give you a
             quarter of my holdings.

                                  MAXIMUS
                    (standing)
             A quarter?!
                                   PROXIMO
              A third. And not a hair more. And
              you'll have to start in the
              provinces! Cleaning up the lion
              shit!

                                   MAXIMUS
              You know, if you were half so awful
              as you pretend, you'd be a
              terrifying man.

Maximus shakes his head, smiling, and goes.

Proximo sits for a moment.

Then he rises and goes to a heavy chest.     He looks at the
chest for a moment and then opens it.

Inside is his old Lorica Segmentata.   He gazes at his
armor, considering what he once was.   And what he now is.

INT.   PROXIMO'S COMPOUND - CELL - NIGHT

Maximus enters.   Lucilla is waiting, extremely tense.

                                   MAXIMUS
              Lucilla --

                                   LUCILLA
              Don't even say it. I know it's
              dangerous -- but I had to see you.
              Captain Marcellus has gone to the
              army with your message as you
              instructed.

                                   MAXIMUS
              Good.

                                   LUCILLA
              He says the City Guard will be ready
              at the south road at noon. They can
              only wait for an hour so --

                                   MAXIMUS
              You've told me this already.

                                   LUCILLA
              Did I? All right then. So
              everything is prepared. The Senate
              will be in attendance and you have
              your gladiators -- the usual cohort
              of Praetorians will be inside the
               arena --

                                    MAXIMUS
               Lucilla... why are you here?

A pause.

                                    LUCILLA
               Tell me honestly... please... do you
               think it will work?

A beat.

                                   MAXIMUS
               No.

                                    LUCILLA
               Do you think we'll all die?

                                   MAXIMUS
               Yes.

She leans against a wall.

A pause.

                                    LUCILLA
               Will you swear something to me?

                                   MAXIMUS
               Yes.

                                    LUCILLA
               Will you swear it on the memory of
               your son?

A long beat.

                                   MAXIMUS
               Yes.

                                    LUCILLA
               By all that you have ever loved...
               swear that if you survive you will
               take my son out of Rome. Swear that
               you will go far away and never
               return.

He steps to her.

                                   MAXIMUS
                      (deeply)
              I will.

A beat.

                                   MAXIMUS
              And if I should not survive... swear
              to me that you will honor my family
              in your prayers always.

                                    LUCILLA
              I will.

A long, difficult beat.    She fights back tears.

                                   LUCILLA
              Had I not been the daughter of
              Rome...

He puts a gentle finger to her lips.

                                   MAXIMUS
              Shhh... my heart breaks enough.

He holds her closely, tenderly.

INT.   PALACE - LUCILLA'S CHAMBERS - NIGHT

Lucilla enters, deep in thought, still drained from her
meeting with Maximus.

She suddenly stops.     Frozen.

Commodus is sitting across the chamber, Lucius at his
knee. An open scroll on Commodus' lap.

                                   COMMODUS
              Sister... join us. I've been
              reading to dear Lucius.

                                   LUCIUS
              I've been reading too.

                                   COMMODUS
              Yes, he's a very smart little boy.
              He'll make a grand Emperor one day.

Lucilla has not moved.

                                    COMMODUS
              Join us, sister.

Lucilla goes to them, sits.
                                  COMMODUS
             We've been reading about the great
             Julius and his adventures in Egypt.

                                  LUCIUS
             She killed herself with a snake!

                                  COMMODUS
                    (to Lucius)
             And just wait until you hear what
             happened to some of our other
             ancestors! If you're very good,
             tomorrow night I'll tell you the
             story of Emperor Claudius. He was
             betrayed! By those closest to
             him...
                    (he glances up to
                    Lucilla)
             ... by his own blood... they
             whispered in dark corners and went
             out late at night and conspired and
             conspired...

Lucilla looks as if she is going to be ill.

Lucius is busy scanning the scroll. Commodus gently
strokes his hair, his cold eyes never leaving Lucilla's.

                                  COMMODUS
             But the Emperor Claudius knew that
             they were up to something dire. He
             knew they were busy little bees.
             And one night he sat down with one
             of them and he looked at her and he
             said: "Tell me what you have been
             doing, busy little bee, or I shall
             strike down those dearest to you.
             You shall watch as I bathe in their
             blood." And the bee knew he spoke
             the truth, for the Emperor always
             speaks the truth. And what do you
             think happened then, Lucius?

                                  LUCIUS
                    (still pouring over
                    the scrolls)
             I don't know, Uncle.

                                  COMMODUS
                    (glaring at Lucilla)
             The bee told him everything.
Lucilla's face is tortured.

INT.   PROXIMO'S COMPOUND - PROXIMO'S CHAMBER - NIGHT

Proximo is asleep -- a sound outside wakes him -- the
steady clip-clop of horses on stone. A lot of horses.

He rises and goes to a window overlooking the street
outside.

A stern Praetorian Guard cavalry unit is cantering into
position at his gates. Proximo grabs his clothes --

EXT.   PROXIMO'S COMPOUND - NIGHT

With cool military precision the Praetorians take up
position at the gates before Proximo's compound, an
unassailable line. They quickly prepare their bows.

Meanwhile, another Praetorian unit has taken up position
at the other end of Proximo's compound -- sealing that
entrance as well.

EXT.   PROXIMO'S COMPOUND - COURTYARD - NIGHT

Proximo is hurrying across his open courtyard when the
first flaming arrow arches into the compound -- it is
followed by hundreds more --

The Praetorians on either end of his compound keep up a
ceaseless hail of flaming arrows -- everything begins to
burn -- the caged gladiators are stirring now --
shouting --

Proximo races to his panicked guards --

                                    PROXIMO
              Release them!   Release them all!
              ARM THEM!

The guards sprint to the cells -- unlocking the gladiators
as quickly as they can --

Not quick enough for many -- Praetorians are now pouring
pitch through the gutter that runs along the bottom of the
cells -- igniting it and incinerating all those trapped
inside --

The compound is soon a raging inferno --

Proximo releases Maximus and Juba --
                                     PROXIMO
                Come --

                                     MAXIMUS
                But --

                                     PROXIMO
                If you want to live -- follow me --

                                     VIBIUS
                       (calling to them)
                Go, Spaniard! We'll show these
                Roman dogs how gladiators fight!

Proximo hauls Maximus and Juba off as Vibius and the other
gladiators arm themselves --

INT.   TUNNELS - NIGHT

Proximo is leading Maximus and Juba quickly through a
decaying cramped tunnel.

                                     PROXIMO
                All the old gladiator schools have
                tunnels to the Colosseum -- most
                have long since collapsed --

                                     JUBA
                How did they know?

                                     MAXIMUS
                We were betrayed.

                                     JUBA
                       (stops)
                I'll stay here.   In case they
                follow.

Maximus stops as well.

                                      JUBA
                Go!   Bring us the army!

Maximus nods.

                                     PROXIMO
                Quickly --

He leads Maximus down the disintegrating catacomb of
tunnels --
EXT.   PROXIMO'S COMPOUND - NIGHT

Vibius hoped to die fighting -- he never got the chance.

It is not a battle, it is a slaughter.

The Praetorians ruthlessly shoot anyone even approaching
the gates -- all the walls are covered -- most of the
gladiators die in the hellish inferno -- the relentless
rain of flaming arrows continues --

Vibius coughs in the thick smoke and rages for someone to
fight -- Praetorian snipers cut him down -- he dies
reaching for the statue of Mars.

INT.   COLOSSEUM - SUBTERRANEAN - NIGHT

Proximo and Maximus emerge deep in the bowels of the
Colosseum.

                                   PROXIMO
                     (points)
              Down that corridor is the butchery
              -- the blood sloughs lead to the
              Tiber. Gods watch over you.

                                      MAXIMUS
              You're not coming?

                                   PROXIMO
              They are killing my men!

He races back into the tunnel.

Maximus moves quickly down the corridor.        He can finally
see...

INT.   COLOSSEUM - BUTCHERY - NIGHT

Grisly carcasses of every description hang from hooks.
Two bored butchers hack them up. The good bits are tossed
into a wagon to fed to the Colosseum animals. The waste
and offal are shoveled into a large sewer opening. A
butcher occasionally lifts a sluice-gate and a gush of
water flows into the sewer from above, washing down the
blood and carcasses.

Maximus crouches and creeps through the nightmare of
hanging carcasses and flies.

When the butchers are looking elsewhere, Maximus creeps to
the sewer opening and climbs in -- he immediately slides
down for a few yards in the slanting, slippery blood
sluice -- out of sight --

Then he thuds to a stop. He can go no further because the
remains of an animal carcass blocks his way. He tries to
slither past the carcass --

Finally, one of the butchers above lifts the sluice-gate
and a torrent of water flows down.

Maximus is washed down the hideous sewer.

INT.    TUNNELS - NIGHT

Proximo and Juba are quickly marching back down the tunnel
toward the compound -- they are very close now -- the roar
of flame is heard -- the creak of falling timber -- and
the screams of burning men. They run.

They round a corner and see there is no way past the world
of flame ahead of them. The tunnel to the compound has
collapsed.

                                    PROXIMO
               Gods... they're killing them all.

Proximo leads them up a cramped stairway to...

EXT.    STREET OUTSIDE PROXIMO'S COMPOUND - NIGHT

They emerge through a sewer entrance -- right into the
arms of the Praetorian Guard. Proximo and Juba are bound.
Proximo sees his compound burning. Sees the Praetorian
archers taking out any last survivors. Hears the screams.

INT./ EXT.   VARIOUS LOCATIONS - ARREST MONTAGE - NIGHT

A quick sequence of brutal arrests as Praetorian Guard
units round up many associated with the plot. And many
that are not.

GAIUS' BEDROOM:   Gaius and his wife are yanked awake and
hauled out.

CHRISTIAN HOME: A congregation of Christians is chained
together, their secret altar smashed.

CAFE:    Greek Scholars are hauled away from their scrolls.

STREET THEATER:   Actors are dragged off in the midst of a
performance.
GRACCHUS' STEAM ROOM: Gracchus is enjoying grapes with
his handsome catamite. A unit of Praetorian bursts in.
Gracchus looks at them. Sighs.

INT.   PALACE - THRONE ROOM - NIGHT

Commodus stands with Lucius on a balcony overlooking the
city.

The roaring flames of the fire at Proximo's compound can
easily be seen.

                                      LUCIUS
              What is that fire?

                                   COMMODUS
              Why that's a bonfire, Lucius.        I
              arranged it just for you.

He puts his hand on the boy's shoulder.

Behind them, Lucilla sits slumped in a chair. Her face is
a mask of anguish at what she has been forced to do.

Two Praetorians enter with a bucket.

                                      PRAETORIAN
              Caesar...

Commodus goes to them. He talks quietly with them for a
moment and glances at what they are carrying.

                                   COMMODUS
              Oh... that's for my sister.

They bring the bucket to Lucilla and set it before her.

Commodus ignores her and goes back to Lucius on the
balcony.

Lucilla glances inside the bucket...

Captain Marcellus' head is floating in brine.          Lucilla
moans. All is lost.

EXT.   TIBER RIVER - NIGHT

Maximus splashes to the surface of the filthy Tiber,
gasping for air.

Animal carcasses float up next to him. He grabs onto one
and floats down the gently flowing river.
EXT.   ITALIAN FRONT - CAMP - DAWN

The Wolf of Rome sleeps. Then its ears rise. Then its
head. It sniffs the air. The wolf slowly rises and
begins loping through the camp.

It passes slumbering soldiers and tents, smoke lazily
drifting up from campfires.

The wolf finally stops and looks up.

Maximus is on a horse. He climbs down.       The wolf goes to
him and licks his hand.

Maximus begins marching through the camp, the wolf at his
side. Soldiers stir, amazed to see their General is
alive.

Gallus leaps up, stunned, and goes to Maximus. They
continue to march through the camp, more and more
astonished soldiers joining them.

They march toward the large tents at the center of the
encampment.

Titus emerges from his tent.   Slams to a stop --

                                     TITUS
              By all the Gods...

He goes to Maximus and embraces him.

                                     MAXIMUS
              Old friend...

                                   TITUS
              You're returned from Hades!      By all
              the Gods!

                                     MAXIMUS
              Where is he?

Just then Quintus emerges from the largest tent.        He
stares at Maximus, unbelieving.

A long beat as they look at each other.

Quintus knows his destiny. With quiet dignity he begins
whispering a prayer. Maximus moves to him, embracing him:

                                     MAXIMUS
              I forgive you.

He stabs Quintus with a dagger as he embraces him.
Quintus falls.

A beat.

Titus goes to the dead Quintus and pulls the seal of
office from his uniform. He hands it to Maximus.

An enormous roar of celebration from the Felix Regiment.

INT.   PALACE - COMMODUS' BEDROOM - MORNING

A castrati choir sings a gentle hymn of celebration.
Their eerie voices and otherworldly harmonies undulate
around Commodus' bedroom.

The Emperor himself is in a chair, wrapped in a robe.    His
body slaves work over him closely.

He is staring into a mirror, lost in another world as the
slaves carefully apply golden eye makeup to him.

The castrati hymn continues...

EXT.   OUTSIDE THE COLOSSEUM - DAY

The hymn is all we hear as we see crowds moving into the
Colosseum...

It seems that all of Rome is here for this great day.
Huge throngs of citizens move like a massive wave toward
the Colosseum entrances. Vendors are doing brisk
business. Praetorian units in full dress uniform canter
past.

We elegantly float up along the outer tiers of the
Colosseum and then glide over the edge to see the arena
stands...

EXT.   COLOSSEUM - DAY

The hymn is all we hear as we see...

The stands are filling. We see the rich and poor alike.
We see the orator Cassius. We see Senator Falco and most
of the Senate. We see the cohort of fifty Praetorian
taking up position around the Imperial Box.

A golden platform, with stairs down to the arena sand, now
extends about twenty feet from the Imperial Box to a spot
over the arena.

We float down the stairs and then we see the arena
itself...

It is stunning in its simplicity.

The days victims are tied to posts in the center of the
arena. Suspended above them is an enormous cloud. A
thick, tumescent bladder painted to look like a
threatening rain cloud.

We see Proximo and Juba. We see Senators Gracchus and
Gaius. We see Gaius' wife and Gracchus catamite and
Christian families and scholars and actors.

Seven stylized hills surround them.

The hymn comes to its soaring conclusion as we see the
damned.

TIME CUT:

Later. By now, the Colosseum is packed. All fifty-five
thousand seats are taken. Another ten thousand stand
wherever they can. A feral anticipation buzzes through
the crowd.

Outside the Colosseum, the streets are crowded with
thousands more who couldn't get in.

Trumpets blare.

Commodus' six Centurion Body Guards stride into the
Imperial Box.

Then Commodus enters. He is shrouded in a full lion's
skin, the head of the lion concealing his own. His head
is down, he does not look up.

Lucilla and Lucius enter after him and sit. Lucilla's
face is drained, her eyes defeated. Lucius is wearing a
miniature set of Lorica Segmentata, complete with
ceremonial dagger.

EXT.   ROMAN STREET - DAY

A mangy dog is slowly crossing a dusty street on the
outskirts of Rome. The street is deserted. It seems that
almost everyone is at the Colosseum.

The dog stops.    Looks up.
Then a sound is heard.    The steady cadence of horses'
hooves.

The Felix Regiment rounds a corner. Maximus leads the
cavalry. He wears Lorica Segmentata. His corps of
archers and soldiers follow. They troop down the dusty
street.

Maximus and the cavalry canter past the mystified dog.

QUICK CUTS:

The Felix Regiment moves through the streets. The few
pedestrians quickly disappear into shops and around
corners. The roar of the Colosseum can be heard far in
the distance...

Arrows slice into isolated Praetorian sentries.   The Felix
Regiment continues its stealth invasion...

Finally, Maximus reins his horse and his troops stop.

The mounted City Guard are waiting.

Without a word, the City Guard joins Maximus and the two
combined forces continue their inexorable march to the
Colosseum.

EXT.   COLOSSEUM - DAY

Commodus, still swathed in the lion skin, his head down,
slowly walks out on the platform that now extends from the
Imperial Box.

The crowd grows hushed.

Commodus reaches the end of the platform and waits for a
moment. Then he dramatically flings off the lion skin.

The crowd gasps.

He is almost naked, his entire chiseled body is painted in
gold. His eyes are lost in an eerie reverie as he looks
around at his people.

He finally speaks:

                                    COMMODUS
                     (serene)
              Rome... This is the day that was
              foretold. This is the day when your
              father takes away all fear...
                     (he holds up his
                     hands)
              With these hands I shall destroy
              your enemies so that you may sleep
              always and forever in peace. From
              this day forth let it be known that
              I, Lucius Aelius Aurelius Commodus,
              have surmounted mortality. That I,
              Lucius Aelius Aurelius Commodus,
              assume my destined place... at the
              side of the Gods.

The crowd is stunned.    A few scattered laughs.

Lucilla stares at him, disbelieving.

                                   COMMODUS
              And as a righteous God, I shall ever
              protect you. I shall cradle the
              world on my benevolent hands and
              clasp it to my heart. So I have
              spoken! And let the heavens tremble
              at my might!

EXT.   ROMAN STREETS - DAY

Maximus continues to lead the combined Felix Regiment and
City Guard cavalry through the streets. The roaring is
closer now. They are nearing the Colosseum, they can just
glimpse the edge of the top tier over some building.

EXT.   COLOSSEUM - DAY

Commodus continues:

                                   COMMODUS
              This day I reclaim Rome for her
              people. I shall give you the
              rebirth of your Empire! Reborn and
              cleansed of her enemies!

He raises his arms. At his cue the Praetorian archers
raise their bows, ready, aiming at the victims.

                                   COMMODUS
              I will make a new Rome! Founded as
              it was at the beginning! Archers --
              GIVE US BLOOD!

The Praetorians suddenly point their bows higher and
fire --
They shoot the cloud -- the bladder EXPLODES and thick
blood rains down on the victims -- the blood splashes over
them, coating them.

EXT.   OUTSIDE COLOSSEUM - DAY

The roar from the Colosseum is now deafening as Maximus
and the City Guard round the final corner -- the Colosseum
is before them -- the massive Praetorian Guard force is
caught of guard -- with crisp military efficiency the
Felix Regiment and the City Guard quickly canter into
place, an unbroken line of seasoned warriors facing the
Praetorians.

The huge mob outside the Colosseum is confused, intrigued,
watching the face-off. The mounted archers of the Felix
Regiment have drawn their bows.

Maximus looks down from his horse at a Praetorian Officer.

                                   MAXIMUS
              Throw down your weapons or we will
              kill you.

A beat.

The Praetorian Officer glances at the formidable force
against him. He drops his sword. His men follow suit.

                                   MAXIMUS
                     (he turns to his men)
              FELIX REGIMENT! DO HONOR TO YOUR
              ANCESTORS! I SALUTE YOU!

He spurs his horse and the Felix Regiment roars, springing
into action -- they gallop through the crowd and to the
Colosseum -- meanwhile the City Guard disarm and guard the
Praetorian --

EXT.   COLOSSEUM - DAY

Commodus continues:

                                   COMMODUS
              As it was at the beginning so is it
              now. The great She-Wolf of Rome
              will again suckle us, again ravage
              our enemies -- AND BRING US A WORLD
              REBORN!

At his cue, two elevator platforms rumble into view,
rising from the bowels of the Colosseum to the arena sand.

On each platform is a cage full of ferocious wolves, they
snap and growl, straining to be released.

                                  COMMODUS
             So it was for Romulus and Remus,
             sons of Mars, so shall it be for us!
             The great She-Wolf will --

Suddenly -- the huge wooden doors of the arena burst open
and Maximus leads the Felix Regiment cavalry thundering
into the arena.

The crowd is stunned -- Commodus is stunned -- Lucilla
bolts up --

Commodus immediately spins to Lucilla, his eyes burning --

His Praetorian are momentarily confused --

At Gallus' command the Felix Regiment archers let fly --
multiple arrows and bolts cut through most of the
Praetorians -- some confusing skirmishes as the remaining
Praetorians fire back --

Maximus leaps from his horse and begins cutting the
prisoners free --

Meanwhile, Commodus strides back down the platform toward
Lucilla in the Imperial Box, murder in his eyes --

She suddenly hugs Lucius quickly and kisses him --

                                  LUCILLA
             Remember your mother.

She pulls the ceremonial dagger from his little uniform
and pushes him to his attendant -- his attendant pulls him
away as --

Lucilla spins to Commodus -- he grabs her into an embrace
-- he turns the knife on her -- thrusting deeply as he
kisses her --

A long kiss as he holds her tightly to him. Then he
gently sits her down on her throne. Her eyes wide, dying.

One of Commodus' Body Guards grabs him:

                                  CENTURION BODY GUARD
             Caesar -- we must go -- !
Commodus' six Centurion Body Guards begin hustling him out
of the Imperial Box --

                                  COMMODUS
              GET THE BOY!

He grabs Lucius from his attendant and drags him off --

They try to escape out the back of the Imperial Box -- but
Felix Regiment troops are blocking their way -- racing up
toward them --

                                  CENTURION BODY GUARD
              THIS WAY, CAESAR!

Below, through the confusion, Maximus sees Commodus
escaping with Lucius down through a side tunnel.

Maximus cuts Juba and Proximo free. Juba immediately
snatches up a sword. Maximus quickly offers a sword to
Proximo.

                                  MAXIMUS
              Captain?

Proximo takes the sword.

                                   MAXIMUS
                     (re: Commodus and
                     the others)
              Where are they going?!

                                  PROXIMO
              This way!

They race across the arena and into a tunnel...

INT.   COLOSSEUM - BOWELS - DAY

Proximo leads them through a series of catacombs -- damp
tunnels shoot off in every direction -- everywhere around
them the heavy machinery of the games rise like mammoth
creatures to the arena above -- a baroque network of ropes
and pulleys and counterweights and elevator platforms and
air shafts and blood sewers -- And they suddenly run
directly into Commodus, dragging Lucius, and his six
Centurions coming the other direction.

The final battle begins with no preamble --

Maximus launches himself forward -- instantly separating
Commodus and Lucius -- he slams at Commodus with his sword
-- Commodus slams back --

Proximo and Juba race into the six Centurions -- a wild
free-for-all as they prove their worth as warriors -- Juba
fights with his usual elegant precision -- Proximo fights
as a man reborn, alive again --

Proximo takes cagey advantage of his knowledge of this
subterranean world -- spinning around machinery and
leaping over blood sewers and swinging heavy
counterweights --

Maximus and Commodus hack at each other with all the fiery
passion in them -- Commodus is a perfect match for Maximus
and equally ruthless -- their swords thrust and parry and
slice at amazing speed -- one false move, one mistake,
means death --

Meanwhile, the battle is turning into a victory for Juba
and Proximo -- they are defeating the Centurions --
Commodus sees this -- and sees Lucius crying in a
corner --

He screams to one of his remaining Centurions:

                                  COMMODUS
             KILL THE BOY!

Maximus whirls to Lucius -- Commodus attacks -- slashing
Maximus' shoulders -- Maximus sees Proximo racing to try
and save Lucius as he spins back to battle Commodus --

A Centurion raises his sword to kill Lucius -- Juba kills
his final opponent, turns -- Proximo just manages to push
Lucius out of the way -- the Centurion's sword slices into
him --

Juba flings his sword across the room -- the final
Centurion falls --

Maximus sees Proximo collapse to a wall -- dying --
Proximo locks eyes with Maximus as he slides down the
wall. The old pirate shrugs. And is dead.

Juba races to Lucius and holds the boy, turning his face
away from the slaughter --

Maximus, his furious passion redoubled at Proximo's death,
attacks Commodus with every ounce of strength in him --

Commodus' eyes begin to flash with something we have never
seen before, fear.

Maximus strikes mercilessly -- forcing Commodus steadily
back until they are fighting atop one of the elevator
platforms to the arena above.

                                    MAXIMUS
              For my wife!

Maximus strike hard -- Commodus barely blocks the blow --

                                    MAXIMUS
              For my son!

He strikes harder -- Commodus is losing --

                                    MAXIMUS
              For my father!

He strikes with everything he's got -- slashing Commodus
-- Commodus sails back -- his sword falling --

Maximus stands over him. Glaring.    Commodus is panting,
defeated, glaring up at him.

A beat.

                                   MAXIMUS
              We who are about to die salute you.

Maximus raises his sword high -- Commodus raises an arm --
Maximus SMASHES the sword down -- and Commodus is dead.

A moment as Maximus stands over Commodus. Then he looks
at the series of counterweight ropes around the elevator
platform.

He slices through one of the ropes and the platform begins
to rise...

EXT.   COLOSSEUM - ARENA - DAY

A trap door springs open and the elevator platform rises
to the sand of the arena. Maximus stands above the dead
Emperor.

The crowd stares in amazement -- and   then begins to cheer
in joy at the return of their hero.    A chant begins...
"Maximus the Merciful... Maximus the   Merciful... Maximus
the Merciful..." which then grows to   a refrain of
"Caesar... Caesar... Caesar..."
Maximus ignores them, his eyes drawn to one sight:
Lucilla.

He goes to the steps of the platform leading to the
Imperial Box. He slowly climbs the steps.

In the Imperial Box, Senator Gracchus is standing.    So too
Juba and others.

Lucius is kneeling by his mother, holding her hand, his
head down. Lucilla is dead. Lucius mourns with quiet
dignity.

Maximus looks at Lucilla and kneels. He takes her other
hand. A long moment. He looks at Lucius.

Then he slowly bends forward and kisses Lucilla deeply,
the ritual farewell.

He stands.

Senator Gracchus steps to him:

                                  GRACCHUS
             General, the purple is yours if you
             so desire. The Senate will support
             you.

Maximus looks at him. And then at the people. The chant
of "Caesar... Caesar... Caesar..." is like a powerful
beating heart.

Maximus moves to the edge of the Imperial Box to address
the people. The crowd grows silent.

Maximus looks around at the blood of the arena.

                                  MAXIMUS
             Rome... you are better than this.
             Look inside yourselves. I challenge
             you to find your true voice. Help
             the Senate speak for you. Make them
             your champion... And dare to think
             what could be.

A beat.

                                  MAXIMUS
             I give you back the dream.

With that he slowly turns and walks down the steps to the
arena sand. The crowd is absolutely silent.
He goes to Titus:

                                   MAXIMUS
              When everything has calmed down,
              lead an orderly withdrawal. Take
              them home.

Titus salutes.

Maximus return the salute and then leaps onto his horse.
As he canters toward the exit he turns for one final look
at Lucilla.

He sees that Lucius is now at the foot of the stairs, on
the arena sand, gazing at him.

Maximus stops his horse.

He canters back to Lucius.   The boy looks up at him.   A
moment between them.

Lucius thrusts up his hand. Maximus grabs his hand and
swings him onto the horse behind him.

A look to Juba.   Juba bows his head with respect.
Farewell.

Maximus spins the horse around and begins cantering out of
the Colosseum.

Juba disappears into the crowd.

Maximus and Lucius canter across the arena and through the
huge doors...

EXT.   COLOSSEUM - DAY

From high above we see Maximus and Lucius riding out of
the Colosseum and disappearing into the streets of Rome.

                                                            FADE TO:

EXT.   VINEYARD - DAWN

Maximus stands with Lucius at his old vineyard.

It is still scorched and dead, weeds overgrowing the
vineyards, the house ruined.

Maximus puts a hand on the boy's shoulder, this boy so
like his own son.
                                    MAXIMUS
             It doesn't   look it now... but soon
             we'll have   it growing again... Next
             year there   will be vines, and then
             there will   be grapes... It will be
             alive.

We leave them, dreaming of the future.

                                                     FADE OUT.

                                   THE END


Meet The Parents Script

            Look at the light coming out of the earth

          Show me a man who's gentle and kind

          And I'll show you a loser

          Now show me a man who takes what he wants

          Look at that boy sitting on the moon

          Look how exciting

          Look how exciting

           So the poets say

            When you're a fool in love

            And nothing goes the way you plan

            And no one cares and no one understands

            That you're a fool and you're in love

            Never another spring for you

            Never a robin to sing for you

            You're out there on your own

            When you're a fool in love

            When you're a fool in love

            A fool in love Seems like the skies

            Are always gray

            You turn around there's someone in your way

            And it's you and you're in love

            Sometimes you think that your luck has changed

            And a rainbow explodes across the sky

            But when you're a fool in love

            You'll be a fool till the day you die

            A fool in love

            [Man] I know we haven't been together that long,

            but these last ten months have just been the happiest of my life.

            You're not only the person I love, you're also my best friend,

            and I want to spend the rest of my life with you.

            Will you marry me?

            Yes.

            Seriously. Do you think that sounds good?

            - No! - Really? 'Cause I think that kinda sums up--

            - No! - Oh? Oh, sorry. Sorry.

            Sometimes these catheters can pinch a little bit.

            Well, thanks for listening. I really appreciate it.

            You've got a real gentle touch there, Doctor.

            She won't be able to say no.

            Actually, I'm a nurse. Doctor'll be right in.

            [Chattering]

            Good luck, Greg. Thanks, Kim. Good luck, buddy.

            [School Bell Ringing]

            Okay, it's time for our problem of the week.

            I want you to pick out your problem--

            a problem that's been bothering you all week--

            With your eyes still closed,

            I want you to picture that problem in your mind.

            Pretend that it's right there in front of you.

            Not only are you my best friend,

            but you're also the person I wanna spend the rest of my life with.

            I love you. Will you... marry me?

            Now I want you to scare your problems away. I want you to say boo.

            [All] Boo.

            - Boo! - [Screaming] Boo!

            [Chuckling] All right, you guys are great.

            Very good. I will see you guys after lunch, all right?

            Hey, Pam, isn't that your special friend outside?

            Yeah, I think so.

            Why don't you go talk to him?

            You think I should? [All] Yeah.

            Come here.

            Come here.

            Hi, sweetie. How you doin'?

            What's going on? I was in the neighborhood, got off work early.

            Thought maybe you wanted to get a bite to eat.

            Oh, that's very sweet. What a nice surprise.

            Oh, shoot, I forgot to change my shoes.

            You don't have to change. I can't resist a man in nurse's shoes.

            I know, but I got sneakers in my backpack.

            - It'll just take a second. - [Giggling] Okay.

            - Honey-- - Hmm?

            Pam, I love you. Yeah?

            I love you too. Come on, sweetie.

            I got a half hour before I have to be back, so you wanna go have lunch?

            - What are you doing? - Um, nothing.

            I just love you so much.

            These last ten months have been the happiest of my life.

            Yeah, they've been amazing. W-What's going on?

            Nothing. I just-- I just-- I just feel like we're so close.

            You're my best friend, and you're also the woman that I love, and--

            Are you okay, sweetie? You're acting so weird.

            I'm fine. I just got a crick in my neck. I was doing C.P.R....

            on a    -pound crack addict this morning. Oh, my goodness!

            Do you want me to massage your neck or something?

            No, no, no, I'm fine, I'm good. A back rub? Are you sure?

            Honey, look, your kids-- they're trying to tell you something.

            What? Hold on. Look! [Cell Phone Ringing]

            Oh, it's my sister. Hello? Hi! I'm engaged!

            You're engaged! That's wonderful. Congratulations!

            Oh, my God, you're getting married in two weeks. That's a little soon.

            Wow, Mom and Dad really don't know Bob very well. Dad was okay with this?

            Well, Bob asked Dad. Wow, that was very thoughtful of him.

            I can't believe he knew to ask Dad's permission.

            Yeah. [Chuckling]

            I'm just here with Greg. He's gonna take me out for lunch. He's okay.

            Okay, yeah, I know you gotta go. I love you.

            Okay, talk to you soon. Bye.

            So what's going on? What? Debbie's marrying that guy? Yeah, in two weeks.

            Dr. Bob of Denver. Isn't that great?

            Yeah, yeah, that's-- Didn't they just meet like a few months ago?

            Well, yeah, but, you know, he asked her, and she said yes.

            He asked my dad. He said yes. Then he asked Debbie.

            Huh? Yeah, I overheard that. So, what, like he had to ask his permission?

            No, no, he didn't have to.

            Bob just understood that Dad appreciates that kind of thing.

            Hmm? Mm-hmm. Anyway, Deb said Dad's crazy about him.

            Evidently, Bob bought him, like, the perfect gift that just won him over.

            You know? Really? Huh? A gift?

            Are you sure it's okay to X-ray this?

             Yeah, it's not gonna mutate or anything.

              - Uh, sir, that's not gonna fit. - Wait. Hang on a second.

              The bag's too big, guy. You gotta check it.

              [Beeping] Over here.

              Raise your arms, sir. Look.

              I've got an engagement ring for my girlfriend in the bag.

              I can't open it here. Don't you think I can just carry it on?

              Hey, pal, if it ain't fittin' through the frame, you ain't carryin' it on the plane.

              -     -- New York La Guardia. Check it. - Wait, wait!

              Excuse me! Don't worry. It'll be waitin' for you on the other side.

              Baby, hurry Don't make me worry

              [Woman Over P.A.] Welcome to New York's La Guardia Airport.

              [Baby Crying]

              Excuse me. Hi.

              You lost my bag, and there's a two-carat diamond ring inside it.

              I didn't lose your anything, sir.

              But put your local address on this form, and we'll ship it when it surfaces.

              And what if it doesn't? Am I supposed to spend the entire weekend...

              with just the clothes on my back?

              [Crying Continues]

              It's a great gift. I just thought you were gonna get them champagne.

              Trust me. I think your dad is gonna be very psyched about this gift.

              Well, don't forget he's retired, though.

              The guy was in the rare-flower business for    years. I think he still maintains an interest.

              You make it sound like they're really hard to please. No, not at all!

              He's the sweetest man in the whole world. Just relax!

              He's gonna love you. I promise.

              As much as he loves Dr. Bob?

              Take it easy on the sarcasm. Humor is entirely wasted on my parents.

              What, are they Amish? [Pam Giggling]

              Okay, no jokes.

              What are you doing? What?

              I told you my dad sees smoking as a sign of weakness.

              Okay, all right, I'll leave 'em in the car.

              No, no, no, no, he'll check there. Oh, gosh.

              Yeah, the roof is probably a better idea.

              Okay. And, oh, uh,

              we're not living together.

              I thought you said you told him. Well--

              Hi, Daddy! Hi! Sweet pea!

              I missed you so much, Pamcake. I missed you too, Flapjack.

              [Continue Kissing]

              Oh, boy, oh, boy, oh, boy, oh, boy, oh, boy, oh, boy!

              [Together] Short stack, short stack, coming up.

              - Ba-ba, ba-ba, ba-ba, ba-ba. - Where's my "wittle" girl?

              - Mommy! Mom! - You look so beautiful.

              [Pam] So do you. Look at you.

              Oh, I'm sorry. Mom, Dad, this is Greg.

              Hi, Greg. I'm Pam's father, Jack Byrnes. Great to finally meet you.

              Good meeting you. And I'm Dina. Welcome to Oyster Bay.

              Oh, thanks. Ah!

              What are you driving there, a Ford?

              Oh, yeah, it's a Taurus.

              We were gonna get a mid-size, but I figure, hey, we pull down decent bucks.

              Might as well go all out, pop for the full-size.

              Sure. Interesting color. You pick it? Oh.

              Oh, no, the guy at the counter. Why?

              Well, they say geniuses pick green.

              - But you didn't pick it. - Jack!

              Oh, yucky. What smells of old sour milk?

              Oh, poor Greg got spit up on by a baby. He didn't.

              Yeah, he did, Ma, at the lost luggage counter. The airline lost his bag.

              They didn't! Oh.

              Yeah. Yeah, they did.

              What about you, honey? Oh, no, no, no. I carried on.

              That's my girl.

              It'll turn up, I'm sure. And anyway, Greg, meanwhile, anything you need, just ask.

              That's right. Mi casa es su casa. Oh, thanks, Jack. You too.

              Yeah. [Giggling]

              [Chattering]

              This is so nice. [Jack] We like it.

              [Sighs] Beautiful.

              Oh, now, Greg, you have a very unique last name.

              Um, we were curious, how do you pronounce it?

              Oh, just like it's spelled. F-O-C-K-E-R.

              Focker. Hmm, Focker. Hmm.

              Mm-hmm.

              - Oh, I'll get it, honey. - Oh, thanks, Mom.

              - Oh, there he is. There's our little guy. -Jinxy, come here, boy.

              Come here, baby. Come to Daddy, Jinxy. Come on. Come on, Jinxy.

              Come here. Come to Daddy. Jinxy!

              Come on. [Chuckles] Taught him that in one week.

              This is Pam's cat, Jinxy. Jinxy, say hello to Greg.

              Hi, Jinx. Wave to Greg. Hello, Jinx.

              Attaboy. That took me another week.

              Oh, my gosh. Pam, I didn't know you had a cat.

              Yeah, I left him here when I moved to Chicago.

              Your daddy's found his new best friend.

              You won't believe it. He even taught him to use the potty.

              You won't believe it. He even taught him to use the potty.

              - He did? Dad, that's kinda weird, isn't it? - What's so weird about it?

              Now we don't have to smell kitty litter all the time. That's right.

              That's incredible. How did you teach the cat to use the toilet?

              Oh, that was easy, Greg. I just designed a litter box to put inside the toilet,

              and then once he got used to it, I took it away.

              Yeah, makes sense. But I don't think he likes it.

              I mean, every chance he gets, he tries to dig, squat and bury.

              I had to move all my potted plants off the floor.

              Plus, you got another guy around the house to leave the seat up.

              He can't lift the seat, Greg.

              He lacks the strength and the opposable thumbs. Yeah.

              Ah, right. Opposable-- I didn't think about that.

              Jinx is strictly a house cat. Can't let him outside because he lacks outdoor survival skills.

              Okay. One of those things, isn't it, sweetheart?

              I don't think Greg will be playing with Jinxy too much. He hates cats.

              [Chuckles Nervously] Pam, I don't hate cats.

              I don't-- I don't hate cats. I just happen to be more of a dog lover.

              Yeah, yeah. [Mouthing] I am too.

              Well, that's okay if you hate cats, Greg. No!

              I don't. I don't hate cats at all. [Jack] That's okay.

              Just be honest about it. There's some things I hate.

              I-- I'm being honest. Really? Like what?

              Honey, why don't we let the kids freshen up, huh?

              Greg, you come with me. We'll get you something to wear from Jack's closet, okay?

              Okay. Oh, honey, honey, honey, honey.

              - Yeah? - I'm so happy you're home, sweetheart.

              Oh! Me too, Dad.

              Hey, listen, be nice to this one, okay? I kinda like him.

              Okay, I'll try. Thank you.

              Shirt fit okay, Greg? Oh, fantastic. Thanks, Jack.

              Good. Tom Collins coming up.

              - You know, I wish you hadn't told your parents I hate cats. - But you do hate cats.

              Yeah, but you didn't have to tell them right when we met.

              I know. I'm sorry. It just kinda slipped out.

              Get your red-hot papooses. My goodness, what is that?

              Oh, that's just a little something from me. Go ahead. Open it up.

              Oh. Look, honey, Greg brought us a present.

              Oh, isn't that nice?

              Oh! Oh, look at this.

              It's a flower pot with the dirt in it.

              - Hmm. - Actually, the real gift is what's planted in the soil.

              The bulb of a Jerusalem tulip.

              Which I was told is one of the rarest and most beautiful flowers in existence.

              Oh, right, right, the Jerusalem--

              From the "Jerusales tulipesias" genus. Yes, yes.

              Hmm. Anyway, yeah,

              the guy said with regular watering, it should bloom in about six months, so--

              Oh, we'll look forward to that, Greg.

              [Clearing Throat] So, uh, Greg, how's your job?

              Um, good, Pam. Thanks for asking.

              I, uh, I recently got transferred to triage.

              Oh, is that better than a nurse?

              No, Mom, triage is a unit of the E.R.

              It's where all the top nurses work. Well--

              No, they do. [Chuckling Nervously]

              Not many men in your profession, though, are there, Greg?

              No, Jack, not traditionally. Mm-hmm.

              Oh, Pam, honey, did you know that your father started his own business?

              Really? Dad, that's great. Oh, wow!

              Yes, I thought with my knowledge and experience,

              why should I allow retirement to stop me?

              I really admire that. Yeah.

              So what is it? What's the new venture?

              Let me ask you a question, Greg.

              Let's just say you have kids...

              and you wanna get out of the house, spend a night on the town.

              So, you hire a baby-sitter, someone you think you can trust.

              References, work experience-- it all checks out fine.

              But then how do you really know for certain...

              that your loved ones are safe with this stranger?

              I mean, can you ever really trust another human being, Greg?

              Sure, I think so.

              No, the answer is you cannot.

              Let me show you something.

              Take a look at this, Greg.

              What's this look like to you? Um--

              [Squeaks] This looks like a teddy bear.

              Smile, you're on "Nanny Camera." Ah!

              Oh! Oh, yeah, yeah! I've seen these things advertised on TV.

              Oh, no, not like this, you haven't. Take a look.

              Oh, my gosh. Hi! Oh!

              Where's the other camera? Right here in this decorative artifact.

              Wow, that's great. Our cameras are motion-activated,

              so they begin taping as soon as they sense any movement.

              We can hide 'em in anything. We hide 'em in mirrors, lamps, televisions, you name it.

              So no matter where you go,

              we'll be watching you. [Pam Chuckling]

              So, Jack, couldn't this maybe be construed as illegal? You know, invasion of privacy?

              Trust me, Greg, when you start having little Fockers running around,

              you'll understand the need for this level of protection.

              Mm.

              Impressive, isn't it?

              Quite. Mm. [Phone Ringing]

              Quite. Mm. [Phone Ringing]

              Oh, I'll get that. I'll get it. I'll get it.

              Honey, I'll get it.

              [Chuckling] Okay.

              Any problem with the documents?

              Okay. I'll meet you at the Oyster Bay Drugstore in about    minutes.

              Now you gotta be more careful when you call here.

              If anybody else answers, just use a Southern accent...

              and ask for the vegetarian special, okay?

              [Chattering]

              Oh, that wasn't the airline, was it?

              Nope, wrong number.

              We're all out of Collins mix, so I'm gonna make a run for the store.

              That's funny. I thought I just bought some.

              You know how that stuff-- it just goes, so I'll be back in a jiff.

              Well, why doesn't Greg go with you?

              Sweetie, you'll need something in case your suitcase doesn't show up.

              - Oh, I'm sure it'll show up. - Yeah.

              You don't wanna take a chance. You don't have a toothbrush. Go on, sweetie.

              Yeah. Okay, unless you want some privacy.

              Why would I need privacy?

              No, I didn't think you would.

              Okay, let's head out. [Dina] Oh, good.

              Bye.

              Have fun, you guys. Pam, he seems wonderful.

              He is. We have the best time together. Good.

              Now, have you two been mm, mm, mm?

              Mother! Oh, thinking about anything permanent.

              Oh, I don't know. I mean, we haven't really discussed it,

              but I definitely have a feeling this is it.

              [Sighs] Dad seems to like him. Don't you think?

              Absolutely.

              Big day, Saturday. Nice car.

              Yes. This car is--

              You got-- What do you use? Unleaded? Regular unleaded?

              Premium. Uh-huh.

              Hey, you know, Jack, now that we have a second to talk,

              I just want you to know how much Pam means to me.

              I know-- I know that we haven't been together that long,

              but the time that we have spent together has been really incredible.

              Greg, how come you don't like cats?

              I don't not like cats.

              I-l just-- I just prefer dogs.

              I mean, I'm just more of a dog kind of, you know--

              Come home, wagging their little tails, happy to see you kind of--

              You need that assurance? You prefer an emotionally shallow animal?

              I--

              You see, Greg, when you yell at a dog,

              his tail will go between his legs and cover his genitals, his ears will go down.

              A dog is very easy to break, but cats make you work for their affection.

              - They don't sell out the way dogs do. - Huh.

              You like Peter, Paul and Mary? [Tape Starts]

              Yes, I do. I'm a big fan.

              Puff the magic dragon Dragon

              Lived by the sea

              Great song. Yeah, one of my favorites.

              Who would've thought it wasn't really about a dragon, huh?

              [Chuckling] What do you mean?

              [Continues]

              You know, the whole drug thing.

              No, I don't know. Why don't you tell me?

              Some people think that...

              to "puff the magic dragon" means to--

              They're really, uh--

              to smoke-- to smoke--

              a marijuana cigarette.

              Well, Puff's just the name of the boy's magical dragon.

              Right.

              Are you a pothead, Focker? No! No.

              What? No, no, no, no, Jack. No, I'm-- I'm not-- I--

              I pass on grass all the time.

              I mean, not all the time. Yes or no, Greg?

              No. Yes. No.

              Hey, Greg, I'll meet you back out front in about...    to    minutes.

              Okay.

              Oh.

              Hey. Hi. How you doing? Hey.

              Do you have any of those nicotine patches?

              No. We have the gum.

              Great. You chew it.

              Thank you. Yes, okay. And what's your most expensive bottle of champagne?

              Mumm's. It's on sale for   .  .

              Really? That's it? You don't have, like,

              a nice, like,    or $    bottle of something?

              You can get a whole bunch of Mumm's.

              Focker. Hey, Jack. Ready to go?

              I've been ready, yeah. They ran out of Collins mix.

              - You been waiting here long? - No, I was just reading up about...

              pumps. Pumps?

              Yes. Breast pumps.

              I grew up on a farm.

              Dankeschoen

              Get your hot buns, hot patooties.

              Wow, Dina, everything looks fabulous.

              It's such a treat for me to have a home-cooked meal like this.

              Dinner at my house usually consisted of everybody in the kitchen...

              fighting over containers of Chinese food.

              You poor thing. What, there wasn't enough food to go around?

              No, there was. We just never really sat down like a family like this.

              - Oh. - Greg, would you like to say grace?

              Oh, uh, well, Greg's Jewish, Dad. You know that.

              You're telling me Jews don't pray, honey? Unless you have some objection.

              No, no, no, no, I'd love to.

              Pam, come on, it's not like I'm a rabbi or something.

              I said grace at many a dinner table.

              Okay.

              O dear God,

              thank You.

              You are such a good God to us, a kind and gentle...

              and accommodating God.

              And we thank You, Osweet,

              sweet Lord of hosts...

              for the...

              smorgasbord...

              You have so aptly lain at our table this day...

              and each day... by day.

              Day by day by day.

              O dear Lord,

              three things we pray.

              To love Thee more dearly,

              to see Thee more clearly,

              to follow Thee more nearly...

              day by day... by day.

              Amen. Amen.

              Oh, Greg, that was lovely.

              Thank you, Greg. That was interesting too.

              Oh, that's a-- that's a lovely vase. That's great.

              Let me guess, Jack. Is that one of your secret cameras too?

              - Boogah-woogah-woogah! [Stammering] - [Pam] Greg.

              Greg, that's an urn which holds the remains of Jack's mother.

              Oh, I'm sorry. I'm so sorry.

              That's all right. You didn't know, Greg.

              I'm-- That's our Gran-gran.

              We like to think of her as watching over us as we eat.

              Love you, Ma. Miss you.

              Miss you every day.

              Oh, honey, why don't you read Greg your poem?

              Oh, no, he doesn't want to hear that.

              What? No! What-What-What poem?

              You see, when Jack had to retire...

              for health reasons-- That's a bunch of malarky. Honey, I'm fine.

              The doctor thought it would be therapeutic if he...

              sort of expressed his emotions in an artistic way.

              Honey, you wrote the most beautiful poem about your mother.

              Please, we really wanna hear it.

              Poem, poem. Please!

              Oh, all right. It's a work in progress.

              I'm still not happy with it.

              As soon as it's ready,

              then I am going to glaze it onto a plate... Mm.

              and put it next to the urn. Nice.

              It's very special.

              "My Mother" by Jack Byrnes.

              "You gave me life, you gave me milk,

              'you gave me courage.

              "Your name was Angela, the angel from heaven,

              "but you were also an angel of God, and He needed you too.

              "Selfishly I tried to keep you here...

              "while the cancer ate away your organs...

              "like an unstoppable rebel force.

              "But I couldn't save you, and I shall see your face...

              "nevermore, nevermore,

              "nevermore, [Crying]

              until we meet... in heaven."

              - [Sighs] - Daddy, that's beautiful.

              [Whispering] It always gets me. Amazing. So-So--

              So much love, yet also so much information. [Groans]

              It takes a lot out of him.

              Greg, would you like some yams? Thank you. Oh, yeah.

              You must've had vegetables fresher than that, growing up on a farm, Greg.

              Dad, uh, Greg grew up in Detroit.

              He told me he grew up on a farm.

              - Do they have many farms in Detroit? - No, Dina, no, not a lot.

              In fact, Jack, I should clarify this.

              I didn't actually grow up... on a farm per se.

              The house we grew up in was originally erected...

              in the early Dutch farm, colonial style.

              So that, plus we had a lot of pets--

              - Which one did you milk then? - Dad!

              Honey, he said he pumped milk.

              What have you ever milked?

              A cat.

              A cat?

              I milked a cat once. You wanna hear a story? Sure.

              My sister had a cat, and the cat birthed a litter of kittens.

              Must've been    of them, and there was this one little runt...

              this little sweet little... little-engine-that-could runt...

              who wanted to get up there and couldn't really get access to the-- to the--

              to the-- to the-- to the teat.

              Teat?

              Dad. What have you.

              I went in and just simply, you know, just--

              into a little saucer,

              then took the saucer and fed it to Geppetto-- that's what I named him.

              I had-- I had no idea you could milk a cat.

              Oh, yeah, you can milk anything with nipples.

              I have nipples, Greg. Could you milk me?

              Okay, could we change the subject perhaps?

              Oh! Champagne, champagne. Yes.

              I thought maybe we could celebrate with a little bubbly. That'd be great.

              Good idea. Yum!

              [Mocking Jack] "l have nipples. Can you milk me?"

              Well, in a funny way, you've already seen Deb's ring.

              Mm-hmm, that's true.

              Would anybody care for a bottle of Oyster Bay Drug and Sundries finest champagne?

              That is so sweet of you, Greg. Isn't that a nice gesture?

              That's very nice. How could I have seen Debbie's ring, Mom?

              Well, when I gave Bob the okay to propose to Deb,

              I put him in touch with my diamond guy,

              and he picked out the same design Kevin gave you.

              Kevin, your old boyfriend? [Clears Throat] Thanks, Dad.

              Well, yeah, Kevin was Pam's fianc?

              - [Screams] - Oh!

              - [Dina Whimpering] - [Groaning]

              - Oh! - [Whimpering Continues] - Oh, my God.

              J-Jinxy, no! Psst!

              - Oh! -Jinxy, no!

              - [Urinating] - [Screaming] - Oh, God.

              - Oh. - Shit.

              Greg, sweetie, how you doing?

              Oh, just fine, considering I desecrated your grandma's remains,

              found out you were engaged and had your father ask me to milk him.

              At least back then he was still talking to me.

              I can't believe you didn't tell me you were that close. Who, Daddy and me?

              No, Kevin and you.

              Do we have to know everything about each other's pasts?

              You never told me about your cat-milking days in Motown.

              That was a long time ago, Pam.

              Yeah, okay, well, so was this.

              Kevin's and my connection was more physical than anything else.

              Physical? Like what? Like you worked out together?

              No, no, it was nothing, nothing. It was a stupid sexual thing. Mm-hmm.

              I'm gonna go throw up now.

              [Groans] Greg, listen.

              Kevin and I were only engaged for a month before I realized that I'd made a mistake, okay?

              I-l-l gave back the ring, I moved to Chicago,

              and I met and fell in love with you, okay, so can we please drop this?

              [Sighs] Okay.

              Good. I just feel like this is not going well at all.

              I feel like your dad hates me. He doesn't hate you, sweetie.

              Come on. Just give him a chance, all right?

              Maybe he's nervous too, huh?

              I thought he would love my gift, you know, being this big flower guy,

              but it's like he didn't even show the slightest bit of interest.

              Listen to me. Forget the gift.

              You are the most adorable, loving, sweetest man in the whole world,

              and I love you.

              And very soon my parents are gonna see that...

              and grow to love you too, okay?

              Okay?

              Speaking of growing to love you--

              Honey, it's late. Come on. I know it's late.

              But Mr. Winky is still on Chicago time,

              and we both know there's only one way to make Mr. Winky go away.

              [Knocking] And there it is.

              What's with the robe?

              It's Pam's. My pajamas are in the suitcase with everything else.

              Hey, I'll lend you a pair of Jack's. Okay, honey? Sure.

              You don't have to do that, Dina. Oh, no, no, no.

              No, that's fine. We have to.

              Thank you. You're welcome.

              Look, Greg, I just wanna say, don't worry about what happened tonight.

              Oh, thanks, Jack. Still, I feel horrible. I mean--

              Well, it was a horrible thing.

              But let's just put all that behind us and enjoy our weekend together.

              Okay. Okay. Thank you, Daddy.

              [Imitating Train Chugging]

              Oh, thank you. Thanks, Mom.

              These'll do just fine. Good night.

              Night-night.

              Good night, sweetie. See you in the morning. Good night.

              Have a nice sleep. Okay, you too.

              Oh, no, no, no, Greg, we made up the pullout for you down in the den.

              Oh, okay, 'cause Pam said I should sleep in Debbie's room.

              Well, Debbie'll be sleeping here tomorrow.

              This way, you'll have more privacy, you'll have your own bathroom.

              Just try not to flush the toilet. It's always a little quirky.

              - Okay. - Oh, one more thing.

              I'm a realist. I understand it's the   st century,

              and you've probably had premarital relations with my daughter.

              But under our roof, it's my way or the Long Island Expressway.

              Is that understood? Of course, yeah.

              Good. Keep your snake in its cage for    hours.

              Okay.

              [Man On Phone] Welcome to Atlantic American Airways' Lost Luggage Department.

              At Atlantic American Airways, customer satisfaction always comes first.

              We are experiencing heavy call volume.

              Your call is very important to us. It will be answered in approximately    minutes.

              Please press " " if you'd like to talk to a representative. [Button Beeping]

              We are closed for the night. Please call back--

              Oh!

              Sorry.

              I don't know what it is, but there's just something about him that's a little off.

              Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. Jack, you know we've been through this...

              with every boyfriend Pam has had since, what, middle school.

              I think Greg-- he's a lovely young man.

              And, honey, Pam thinks he might be the one.

              She said that? She said those exact words?

              I didn't tape record it, Jack, but that's the impression.

              What kind of a family doesn't have time to sit down for dinner?

              Fugitives. Please try to enjoy the weekend, honey.

              Both our daughters are in love. That's what I'm worried about.

              Oh.

              Oh, geez, I just realized something. What?

              Pam's middle name. Martha.

              Oh, no.

              [Together] Pamela Martha Focker.

              "Operation Ko Samui"?

              Looking for something, Greg? Oh!

              Jesus, Jack, you scared me.

              I heard a noise, so I came down to see if everything was okay.

              Everything's fine. I just-- I'm sorry. I saw a light on, and I kinda stumbled in.

              I didn't realize-- That's okay. See anything interesting?

              No, not at all. I mean, I mean--

              I mean, this is great, though. I love this-- what you-- it's a cozy little nook.

              I noticed you were looking at that when I came in.

              Yeah. It's an antique polygraph machine.

              Is that what that is? I've seen these before,

              but I never saw one actually up close.

              You know what? Why don't you try that on?

              Oh, that's okay.

              Oh, come on. We'll have some fun. I'll show you how it works.

              I-l shouldn't.

              - Why should you be afraid? You have nothing to hide. - No, I know.

              - I know you know, so there shouldn't be any problem. - No, there's no problem.

              - So, try it on. - Okay.

              I'll help you.

              Don't worry. You'll enjoy this.

              All right.

              Looks complicated. Now these aren't    % accurate, right?

              They're-- You'd be surprised how accurate they are.

              They can tell fairly easily if someone's lying or not.

              Now I'm gonna ask you some questions,

              and all you have to do is answer "yes" or "no."

              - Okay. - All right.

              Let's give it a whirl.

              Did you fly on an airplane today?

              Yes, I did. No peeking.

              - Did we eat pot roast for dinner tonight? - Yes.

              Was it under-cooked?

              No, it was rare.

              It was a little rare for my taste.

              But I wouldn't-- I'm just kidding, I'm just--

              [Laughing Nervously]

              Relax. Relax. The needles are jumping.

              Have you ever watched pornographic videos?

              No.

              - I mean, well, I don't-- - Yes or no?

              - Hey! - Hey.

              What's the matter? You can't sleep?

              No, no, I'm just going over some of my answers from the polygraph test your dad gave me.

              - Oh, no, he didn't. - Yeah, he did.

              Well, did you lie to him?

              No! I mean-- Well, he asked me if we were living together,

              and-- What'd you tell him?

              I-l-l-- Nothing. Your mother walked in...

              and yanked the little thingies off before I had to answer.

              Is this how you'd react if I told you he shoved bamboo shoots up my fingernails?

              Or does he hook all your boyfriends up to his little machine?

              Well, he doesn't need a machine. He's a human lie detector.

              What? Greg, my father was never in the rare flower business.

              That was just his cover.

              He was in the C.I.A. for    years.

              How could you not tell me this?

              I wanted to, honey, but it was strictly...

              on a need-to-know basis.

              So, what? He's in the C.I.A.? He was a spy? He is a spy?

              No, he was more like a psychological profiler.

              They used him to interrogate suspected double agents in the company.

              Oh, that's great. Yeah.

              I was scared of your dad back when I thought he was a florist.

              It's wonderful to know that I've actually got a C.I.A. spy-hunter on my ass.

              Would you stop? You're doing great, okay?

              This is a lot to take in, honey. I'm sorry.

              It's just weird. Oh, I know, but you're doing fine.

              I promise.

              Mm, no, no! W-What's wrong, sweetie?

              I forgot. I'm not supposed to let the snake out of my cage.

              Your what?

              I told your dad I wouldn't touch you for    hours.

              Okay, I'm not in junior high anymore, so-- No, no, no.

              Seriously. I want to try to respect his rules, okay?

              Okay. Fine.

              Uh, why don't you go ahead and get some sleep, and I'll see you in the morning.

              Okay.

              [Purring]

              - Morning, Greg. - Good morning.

              Pam told me she let you in on a little secret of mine last night.

              Yes, she did.

              Well, as long as you can keep your mouth shut for the rest of your life,

              you're in no immediate danger.

              I won't tell.

              I'm just being humorous.

              Huh. That was funny.

              But the fact is, Greg, with the knowledge you've been given,

              you are now on the inside of what I like to call...

              "the Byrnes family circle of trust."

              I keep nothing from you, you keep nothing from me...

              and round and round we go.

              Okay. Understood.

              Okay, good. Come on. Let's go inside and have breakfast.

              [Chatter, Laughter]

              Jinxy cat, Jinxy cat where are you

              I love you

              Jinxy. Jinxy.

              Not at the table, honey, please.

              - Attaboy! - Hey, hey, look who's up!

              Hi, sweetie. You must be Greg.

              - Hello. - Oh, look, somebody had a visit from the hair fairy.

              Oh, yes. Nice 'do, nice 'do.

              I'll do the intros. Greg, this is my sister, Debbie.

              Hi. Nice to meet you. Oh, the bride to be.

              - Congratulations. - And her fianc? Dr. Bob.

              You can call me Bob... M.D.

              - These are his parents, Linda Banks, - Hi. How are you?

              Nice to meet you. and the world-famous plastic surgeon, Dr. Larry.

              Whoa, now, cut that out.

              You know, Greg's in medicine, too, Larry.

              - Oh, really? What field? - Nursing.

              [Both Laughing] That's good.

              No, really. What field?

              Nursing.

              Hey, why don't I get you a chair, Greg?

              Thank you. Thanks.

              So, you didn't want to go for the M.D.?

              No, I actually thought about becoming a doctor, but I decided it wasn't for me.

              Just as well. Boards are killer.

              Actually Greg aced his MCATs.

              - You serious? - No, I did okay.

              Oh, he did more than okay. Trust me.

              Why did you take the test if you weren't planning on going to med school?

              Well, I wanted to keep my options open,

              but in the end, nursing was a better fit for me.

              It gives you the freedom to work in several different areas of medicine.

              Plus, I can focus    % on patient care,

              as opposed to being a doctor where you have to deal with the bureaucracy.

              Wasn't your friend Andy supposed to be here by now? Oh, my God!

              I thought Deb told you. Dr. Andy threw out his back. He can't make the wedding.

              Oh, damn. Now I have to reconfigure the whole procession.

              Um, Bob, why doesn't Greg stand in for Andy, be the usher?

              - Oh! No, Pam, no. - That'll be fine. Bob, Greg'll be your second usher.

              - Good. - Uh, yeah. Yeah, yeah, okay, sure.

              Good. Let's all finish up and get ready to go...

              because we have a pre-activity briefing in about    minutes. Thirty-two minutes!

              You know what? In that case, I'd better get upstairs...

              and pay a little visit to the shower fairy.

              Dina, thank you so much for breakfast.

              [Chattering]

              Hey, you okay? Why didn't you wake me up?

              - Because I thought you'd like to sleep late. - Not when I'm a guest.

              - It's okay. Don't worry about it. - No, it's not okay.

              Tell that to Dr. Torquemada in there with the Grand Inquisition.

              Go take a shower, get dressed and come back down.

              - Get dressed in what? - Borrow some more of Dad's clothes.

              No, I don't-- Come on. Why not, honey?

              I just-- No, I don't feel comfortable wearing your dad's underwear.

              Okay, well, go wake up Denny and borrow some of his.

              You want me to go wake up your brother who I never met...

              and ask if I could have some of his clothes?

              Okay, all right. Where's Denny's room? Top of the stairs, turn right.

              [Knocking] Denny?

              Denny?

              Denny? [Rap]

              Hello? Hello?

              Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey! What the hell you doing in here? Hi!

              I'm-- I'm Greg, Pam's friend.

              What? Were you just sniffing my boxers, dude?

              No, dude, no. No, no, she said I could come up here,

              maybe borrow some clothes from you. Do me a favor. Close the door.

              Okay. Quick.

              - Tell anybody I wasn't here? - No, they think you're asleep.

              Yeah, so, it's all good. [Sighing] You scared me.

              Dad keeps you guys under a pretty close watch, huh?

              No, it's not that bad. Your little Pamcake's got it a lot worse than I do.

              Oh! You need some clothes. Yes, that would be-- that would be great.

              Glad to hook you up. All right? Cool.

              Like what you done with the crib.

              Oh, L'il Kim.

              She's phat.

              P-H phat.

              Yeah, I think these ought a do it. All right, here you go, chief.

              All right! Enjoy!

              Thanks a lot, Denny. No problem.

              Oh, and don't worry about the little covert op, all right?

              I'll keep it on the lowdown. Down low.

              No doubt. [Jack Imitating Trumpet]

              People, people, come get your revised itineraries.

              Larry, Linda, Debbie, Bob, honey.

              Now, I'm gonna activate the alarm. It'll go off in T minus    seconds.

              I don't think I need a jacket. It's cold out, honey.

              Hold on. Here, take Denny's jacket.

              Hey, Denny, I'm lending Greg your jacket, okay? Whatever.

              Let's go.

              Denny, how's the tux fit?

              Dad, uh-- What's that?

              I-It's a sculpture I found in Greg's jacket.

              This isn't a sculpture, Denny. This is a device for smoking marijuana.

              Really?

              Not mine. It's not.

              Oh, hey, Jack. How you doing?

              I like the top hat. Complements you.

              Can I talk to you for a minute?

              Sit down.

              Did I not clearly explain the circle of trust to you, Greg?

              Mm, yeah, I think I got it.

              Then is there something you wanna tell me?

              Mm, l-l don't think so.

              Didn't we have a discussion yesterday in the car about this?

              Oh, yes! You mean-- Yes!

              You mean me and Pam. Yes, I would love to talk to you about that.

              We're not talking about Pam. We're talking about you.

              See, if I can't trust you, Greg, then I have no choice...

              but to put you right back outside the circle.

              And once you're out, you're out. There's no coming back.

              Mm, well, I would definitely like to stay inside the circle.

              Well, then, tell me the truth.

              Okay.

              Jack, I don't know what we're talking about.

              All right, now look, Focker, I'm a patient man.

              That's what    months in a Vietnamese prison camp will do to you.

              But I will be watching you, studying your every move.

              And if I find that you are trying to corrupt my firstborn child,

              I will bring you down, baby.

              I will bring you down to Chinatown.

              Where are we? I thought we were going to Kevin's house.

              - We are, sweetie. This is Kevin's new house. - Wow!

              Oh, this is a crazy house. Not bad, huh, Dad?

              Maybe he uses marijuana for medicinal purposes. People do that nowadays.

              Honey, this kid has been lying to us from the moment we met him.

              Hey, you. Get in some quality time with the boys? Hey.

              Uh-huh, yeah, it was fun.

              Listen, I hope this lunch isn't too weird for you.

              Why would "B.B.Q at Best Man's" be weird? [Doorbell Ringing]

              Oh, my God, Greg. I was sure I told you.

              Kevin is Bob's best man. This is his place.

              Kevin, your ex-fianc? Hey! Welcome, everybody.

              I don't understand. How does he know Bob?

              [Grunting]

              Well, they-- they went to lacrosse camp together,

              and Kevin was the one who introduced Bob to Debbie.

              Lacrosse camp?

              I was really lucky I was able to salvage this wood...

              from an old seamen's chapel in Nantucket.

              Oh. Wow!

              Kevin, the house is amazing. This is where

              Maybe you should have gotten married here.

              All right, the sun is out, the grill is hot and the pool is luke.

              If I can interest you in a swim and a little B.B.Q, just follow me.

              All right, Kevo. Right on schedule.

              Bring it on. Wow. It must cost a fortune to heat this place.

              [Jack] Wait till you see the rest of the house.

              [Carmen Playing Over The Stereo]

              You okay, sweetie? Yeah.

              I'm really sorry. I don't know why I thought you knew.

              It-- It's not a big deal.

              If I can handle a weekend without sex and cigarettes,

              I think I can handle an afternoon with your ex-fianc?

              Okay. Thank you.

              Now, for the floor that you're walking on, I chose this Bolivian wormwood.

              I think it works well in here. I have the Viking range here and the twin Sub-Z's.

              Yeah, they open up right there. Oh, I get it. Like hidden.

              Yeah, kind of blend in. Great.

              Are you a homeowner, Greg?

              No, no, I rent. Oh.

              So, things are going real, real well for you, aren't they, eh, Kevo?

              Gosh, things have been going so great lately.

              I got in early on some wireless I.P.O.s, and the stuff just skyrocketed from there.

              - Wow. - What about you, Greg? What line of work are you in?

              - I'm in health care. - Yeah, so you know what I'm talking about.

              There are a lot of Benjamins to be made now with biotech stuff.

              I don't have to tell you that. How's your portfolio?

              I'd say strong...

              to quite strong.

              You gotta strike while the iron's hot.

              Now's the time.

              - Greg's a male nurse. - That's right. Thank you, Jack.

              [Kevin] Well, that's great.

              That's great to give something back like that. I'd love to find time to do volunteer work.

              Just the other day I saw this golden retriever that--

              He had like a gimp, and he couldn't really--

              It made me feel terrible. I wish there was something I could do.

              Yeah, well, I get paid, but also it feels, you know, good too.

              So it's kind of an everybody wins.

              What are you-- You're like a Wall Street trader?

              An investment guy? No. I mean, I'm willing to be painted with that brush.

              Yes, that's my day job.

              We have time? We got time, don't we, Jack?

              I want to show you what I'm really interested in. Come on. Let's go.

              Wow! It looks like somebody got an "A" in wood shop.

              [Pam, Kevin Laughing]

              Yeah, it's always been kind of a hobby. I whittled that out of beech wood.

              Huh. It's beautiful. Yeah.

              So what got you into, uh, "carpentering"? Carpentry?

              [Snickers] I guess I'd have to say Jesus.

              He was a carpenter, and I just figured if you're gonna follow in someone's footsteps,

              who better than Christ?

              Hmm.

              Greg's Jewish.

              Are you? Yeah.

              - Mm-hmm. - Well, so was J.C.

              Wow. You're in good company.

              [Chortles] Right.

              Ahem.

              Well, I'm gonna head to the pool,

              but why don't you show Greg and Pam the gift?

              [Greg] Wow, he made a gift. [Pam] Greg.

              I put a fresh coat of lacquer on this this morning,

              so bear with me with the fumes.

              Wow. Kev.

              - Isn't that something? - That's incredible.

              Thank you. Roses. Deb's favorite.

              [Kevin] Yes, right. It's beautiful. The little holes are for candles.

              [Kevin] Exactly. And then later, they'll collect rainfall.

              - They make a tiny birdbath. - That's great.

              It's beautiful. What is it?

              It's an altar.

              Or you might call it a "ho-puh."

              Isn't that sweet? Wow.

              I'm gonna take it over to the Byrneses',

              and tomorrow Robert and Debra will meet beneath it to become man and wife.

              And later, when they purchase a home,

              maybe it will grace their garden.

              Well, that's my sappy, romantic idea. [Chuckles]

              [Chuckles]

              Must have taken forever to build.

              No, not too bad. About    hours.

              Which isn't bad, considering I carved it all by hand from one piece of wood.

              Huh. [Jack] Hey, Kevo.

                :  . Time to start the barbecue, big guy.

              Okay, Mr. B. I better get back to playing host.

              Okay, you guys, grab your suits, and I'll meet you down at the pool.

              - I think I'm gonna take a pass on the swimming. - Oh, no, you can't.

              I don't even have a suit with me. The airline lost my bag and--

              [Jack] Pamcake, let's go. Mom's got your suit here. Coming, Dad.

              You better get going.

              Gosh, she's great. Congratulations, man.

              Thank you. And, by the way, she just had the nicest things to say about you.

              Really? Yeah.

              Oh.

              Gosh. Yeah, we had some good times together.

              Boy, she is a tomcat.

              Whoo.

              So, let me hook you up with some trunks, Gregger.

              I'm not gonna swim. No, come on. I'm not taking no for an answer.

              [Kevin] Cold buffet is on the left, wine and champagne on the right.

              Comin' through here.

              [Chattering]

              [Kevin] Yeah, that'd be gre-- Hey, there he is!

              Get out here. [Wolf Whistle]

              G-Man, we got salmon, we got swordfish. What's it gonna be?

              Ah-- How 'bout a little of both, K-Dog? I'm pretty hungry.

              I think they call that "the munchies."

              [Chuckling]

              Let's go. Hit the ball, Kev! Show 'em what you got!

              Come on, Greg. Damn!

              Come on, team. He's got nothing. Come on, Greg.

              - Service. - Come on, Greg.

              [Screaming]

              - [Glass Breaking] - Nice serve, pal.

              - All right. - Set!

              [Jack] Oh, Greg! Come on!

              Whoo! Nice shot, Maverick! Sweet setup, Iceman.

              [Denny] Nice one, Nurse. Glenn, Glenn, Glenn.

              You gotta rush the net on defense. Don't be afraid of the ball.

              - It's Greg. - Huddle up, team.

              Greg, not Glenn. Greg is afraid of the ball.

              - [Jack] Come on. This is unacceptable. - He's gotta go for the ball.

              - Here's what we gotta do. - [Bob] Let's go! We're gettin' cold in here.

              We're gettin' creamed. If Florence Nightingale over here would play defense.

              - Larry, I missed one shot. - It was a big shot.

              Larry, keep floatin' where you are. You're doin' great.

              Denny, take the deep shots. Greg, nobody's expecting much out of you.

              - If I set you up with the ball, can you jump up and spike it? - [Denny] No.

              Yeah. I'd have to be pretty high, but yeah.

              I bet you would, Panama Red. [Snickers]

              - All right, everybody, look sharp. Break! - Let's play some ball.

              [Bob] All right, here we go.

              Let's go. Come on.

              [Denny] Greg! Set!

              You gotta spike those, Focker! You gotta spike those!

              - Look how Bob did that. Nice play, Bob. - Thanks, Jack.

              Fire it up there, Focker! Let's do it!

              - Way to go, Deb! - Greg!

              [Roaring]

              - Oh! - [Bob] Honey! God!

              - [Shouting] - [Whimpering]

              What the hell's the matter with you? It's only a game, Focker!

              - Oh, honey! I'm coming! - [Deb Crying]

              [Jack] Get some ice.

              My eye! Oh, my eye! Focker!

              [Bob] God! [Deb Crying]

              [Jack] Pam, help your sister, please. I'm sorry, Deb.

              Deb, you can totally see Voit backwards on your forehead.

              - Denny, get outta here! - You the bandleader?

              Yes, sir. Go over the song selection with Bob. Bob? Bob!

              [Bob] Yeah, Jack. Are you a Mr. Focker?

              Yes. Okay. Sign here, please.

              Hey, your suitcase. You go through it, make sure it's all there?

              Yeah, it's fine. What's up? Good.

              I just wanna make sure you're okay since hitting the spike heard 'round the world.

              Oh, yeah. I'm really sorry about that. It's okay.

              I don't know what got into me, Iceman.

              "Iceman"? I'm sorry. Is that a special thing

              Stop it. Stop what, Iceman?

              Top Gun was a very popular movie when Kevin and I dated.

              All right? That's it. Hey, Iceman.

              Do you want to be Maverick? Is that what this is all about?

              I can't be Maverick. Kevin's Maverick. He used to be,

              but we can change that.

              Um, can he be Goose? No, because Goose dies in the end.

              Mmm. Very sad.

              Honey, I don't really-- Greg, shut up.

              Okay.

              Jesus, Dad, you ever think of knocking? Not in my own den.

              What are you two doing in here? I'd say rounding

              - This is Greg's room, Dad. - Not anymore. We're gonna use it for storage.

              Greg will stay in Debbie's room, and she'll bunk up with you tonight.

              Fine. Come on, Greg.

              - Okay. I'll be right up. - I'll meet you upstairs.

              - Okay. I'll be right up. - I'll meet you upstairs.

              Oh, good. They found your suitcase. Yeah.

              Hey, Jack, I don't quite know what happened back at the tux shop,

              but if I've given you the wrong impression regarding Pam in any way, I'm sorry.

              Okay? I have nothing but the best intentions with Pam, and I-I just--

              Actually, there's something in the suitcase here that I'm planning on giving her...

              that I think, um, symbolizes...

              [Jiggling Toilet Handle]

              the level of my commitment, uh, to her. [Toilet Tank Lid Clattering]

              And I wouldn't feel right asking her to wear it...

              without her father's permission.

              Jack?

              Did you flush this toilet?

              Maybe. You know what? Maybe Jinx flushed it.

              I saw little Jinxy come in last night,

              and he took a little squat and relieved himself.

              Jinx knows not to use that toilet, and even if he did, he'd never flush it.

              - What does it matter? - The matter, Greg, R.N.,

              is that when this toilet is flushed, it runs,

              and when you have a septic tank that's nearly full and a toilet that's been running all night,

              then you could have a hell of a problem.

              Mr. Byrnes?

              [Man] This is not part of my job description.

              Nice stench. You're really on a roll there, bud.

              Bite me, Denny!

              In    hours, I'm having a wedding here, so I need my cesspool pumped now!

              - Not tomorrow. Now! - Dad, what's going on?

              Oh, my God! What's that smell?

              That smell, Bob, is our shit.

              Focker flushed the toilet in the den, so the septic tank is overflowing.

              Jack, I told you. It wasn't me. It was Jinx.

              Focker, I'm not gonna tell you again!

              Jinx cannot flush the toilet. He's a cat, for chris sakes!

              The animal doesn't even have thumbs, Focker.

              - Hey, look at this! - Kevo!

              Over by the tree, right?

              No. No, no, no. Not on the lawn!

              Stay where you are. Not on the lawn!

              - [Pam] Kevin, no! - No, no, no, no!

              - [Screaming] - Oh!

              - No, no, no! - Ahh!

              What the heck?

              I got my mojo workin'

              Just won't work on you

              I got my mojo workin'

              Just won't work on you

              Oh--

              I know that's what I said I wanted, 'cause that's what I wanted.

              It is a black Samsonite suitcase.

              What I'm saying is, do you think it's possible that the Samsonite people,

              in some crazy little scheme to actually turn a profit, made more than one?

              [Woman On Phone] I don't think so. You don't?

              I am going to need your baggage claim number again. Jinx, stop.

              - I know I signed for it. - I'm looking at your signature right here, Mr. Focker.

              - Do me a favor. Could I talk to your supervisor? - Excuse me?

              Hmm? What's your name? Joy.

              - Okay, let me talk to your supervisor. - My supervisor is on a break.

              When he gets back, have him give me a call right away.

              It's a very important bag. I'm sure it is, sir.

              [Meowing]

              Jinx.

              Don't ask me what it's for. I need you to do this thing. [Man] Yeah.

              Please, I'm in a time situation here, so just do it. I'll hold on.

              So the name's "Greg Focker"? I don't know. Greg or Gregory. Run both names.

              Jinx.

              Come on. No. Jinx. Come here. Jinxy. [Meowing]

              Mew, mew, mew. No. No.

              Jinx. Oh, shit.

              Greg didn't ace his med school boards. He never even took the goddamn MCATs.

              Oh, Jack, that's what you had your sources check out?

              What this poor boy did on some test scores?

              I bet he doesn't even have a real nursing degree.

              A lot of these hospital workers are just pill poppers looking for easy access to ludes.

              We already know that he's been puffin' the magic dragon.

              I knew the little crack was lying.

              Jinxy. Come here. Come here, little Jinxy.

              Oh.

              [Meowing]

              Jinxy cat, Jinxy cat I won't hurt you

              The fact is, Greg lied to you.

              He did not lie to me, Dad. He lied to you when I thought you should know the truth.

              I love you too much to see you get hurt.

              I don't care what your information says, Dad. Greg took the MCATs. Okay?

              [Sighs] [Phone Rings]

              [Phone Beeps, Man Speaking Asian Dialect]

              [Speaking Asian Dialect]

              [Man, Jack Speaking Asian Dialect]

              [Speaking Asian Dialect]

              [Meowing]

              [Phone Beeps]

              [Meowing]

              [Meowing] [Speaking Asian Dialect]

              - Oh. - [Cat Meowing]

              [Asian Dialect] [Beep]

              - [Meowing] - Holy--

              - [Meowing] - Shit!

                Whoa!

                Wah! Whoa! Whoa!

                No, no, no. No, no, no.

                No!

                Ho--

                Holy--

                No! Oh! Oh, my God!

                [Jack] All right, everybody. All right, stand back.

                - [Screaming] - Stay back. Stay back.

                [Shouting, Screaming] Watch out. Watch out!

                [Dina] Oh, Jack! Oh, God!

                [Shouting]

                [Larry] We've got a fire! Somebody call     right away! Hurry up!

                [Dina] Jinxy! Jinxy!

                We checked every yard, every car on the street. Nobody's seen him.

                He's not up in any of the trees, Jack.

                We checked all the bedrooms. Jinx isn't up here.

                Yeah, none of the neighbors have seen him either.

                You tried to milk him, didn't you, you sick son of a bitch!

                Dad, stop it. That's enough.

                Honey, please calm down. How can I calm down...

                if we're    minutes away from the wedding rehearsal and the ring bearer's missing?

                Whoa. What do you mean, "the ring bearer"? Your daddy didn't tell you?

                He taught Jinx to walk down the aisle with this little pillow.

                Oh, no. No, you didn't, Dad.

                Yeah, yeah. You put this around the neck, and these ribbons are for the rings.

                [Bob] That's adorable, Jack. Oh, for Chris sakes!

                That's great, Dad. Yeah, but now we have to postpone the rehearsal.

                Bob, you ride with me. Larry, you come with your car.

                We're gonna canvass the neighborhood. Dee, ask O'Boyle to wait.

                If we're not back in an hour, we'll reschedule the rehearsal for the morning.

                Jack! No! We cannot cancel the rehearsal for some stupid cat!

                Stupid cat? How could you say that? That cat's been like a brother to you!

                We're supposed to let him wander the streets without food, water or toilet?

                - D-Dad, Greg'll find him. - What?

                - Yeah, what? - [Dina] Oh, that's wonderful.

                Fine. Fine. Okay. Denny?

                - Denny? Denny? Denny! - Dad, I'm right here.

                Yoo-hoo. Okay. You're gonna fill in as the ring bearer for now.

                - No. I'm not wearin' that stupid pillow thing on my head. - Oh, yes, you damn well will!

                Jinx! Jinx! Here, Jinx.

                You just go and wander the streets without food, water or toilet? Fucker!

                [Cat Meowing, Dogs Barking]

                Actually, you may be in luck. They brought in a Himalayan a little while ago.

                [Gasps] There he is.

                Holyshit, that's Jinx.

                Jinxy! Uh, no, let me see that photo again.

                You gotta picture him without that stupid Santa cap.

                Come on, Jinxy. Jinxy! Uh, no.

                You see, in the picture, your cat has an all-black tail.

                Yeah. And this one has a white tip.

                No, I'm sorry about that, chief.

                Looks just like him. Almost.

                Except for that tail.

                [Chain Saw Buzzing]

                Dearly beloved-- [Tree Crashing, Workers Shouting]

                [Father O'Boyle] Dearly beloved,

                we are gathered here on this beautiful day...

                to join Dr. Robert Banks--

                Dearly beloved, we are gathered here on this beautiful day...

                to join Dr. Robert Banks and Debra Byrnes in holy matrimony.

                This is a special day--

                He found him! Yea!

                It's him! It's him!

                [Bob] I gotta see this.

                Look, Dad, it's Jinx. Oh, my little baby!

                We found you. We found you. Greg, thank you so much. This is so great.

                [Dina] Where did you find him? Gave us a little scare, huh?

                Jinxy. Ohh.

                Oh

                For once in my life I got someone who needs me

                To Greg. Hooray!

                [Dina] Honey, where is Greg, anyway? He's in the restroom.

                Yes, I tried there. I've tried every shelter on the north shore, okay?

                He's a brown-and-black Himalayan with an all-black tail.

                Mr. Jinx. Yeah, okay. You go check. I'll call you back.

                [Laughing]

                It's the man of the hour. Hey!

                Sorry, folks. Had to pay a little visit to the urinal fairy.

                [Laughing]

                Greg, nice work with the cat today.

                Aw, thanks, Jack. I'm just glad I could help out.

                We never did get to finish that little "convo" back at the den.

                So, when you have a minute, there is still something I'd like to talk to you about.

                We'll get right to it as soon as we get back. You have my word.

                I'm gonna hold you to that. Circle of trust.

                Guess who's back in the circle of trust.

                [Chuckling]

                [Cat Yowling]

                Pull the string and I'll wink at you

                I'm your puppet

                Look at Jack! Whoa! [Laughing]

                Oh, poor Kevin looks lonely.

                Maybe I should ask him to dance. What do you think?

                Sure. I bet he could, uh, whittle a private little dance floor for the two of you.

                [Chuckles] I'm serious.

                I saw some beech wood outside. He's very handy. [Laughing]

                He's an extremely handy and crafty craftsman.

                I shouldn't paint him with that brush, but--

                Come on. Seriously. Seriously. Part of you wishes you ended up with him.

                Yes, he's very talented,

                but it would've never worked out.

                Why not?

                I was never in love with Kevin.

                I'm in love with you.

                That's a good explanation. Think so?

                Mm-hmm. Thought you'd like that.

                I do. I'm glad.

                No, Jinx. Mr. Jinx. I called you like half an hour ago.

                Okay, I already-- I already described it. Airline.

                Messages.

                Uh, it's, uh-- It's brown...

                with a little bit of black trim.

                Yes. [Line Ringing]

                [Mechanized Voice] Please enter your four-digit code.

                Jack, hi. It's Hank MacAtee from next door.

                You'll never guess who wandered over here this afternoon. Mr. Jinx.

                Yeah, he's not wearing his collar, but, uh, I'm sure it's Jinxy.

                Thought you might be worried, so just give me a jingle when you guys get home,

                and I'll bring the little rascal over.

                Okay, well, if you could just keep checking, please, and I'll call you back later. Thanks.

                - [Sighing] - Any luck?

                No, they're still looking.

                Hey, Jack, this is a great party.

                I guess sometimes these things sort of come together in their own kooky sort of way.

                Yeah, it's kind of like the way you found Jinxy.

                - You found him at that animal shelter, huh? - Uh-huh. Yeah, right.

                - Well, the important thing is he's home now. - Yes.

                Yeah. You know, there's something about that ball of fur...

                that just puts a big smile on my face.

                Mm. Yeah. You haven't seen any of his latest tricks, have you?

                No. Hm-mm.

                Well, when we get back, I'll show you.

                We don't have to do it tonight. He's had a long day. He's probably tired.

                I wouldn't want to-- No, I think he'd like to show you tonight.

                Hmm.

                Why don't you give me the key and let me drive?

                Hey, Larry. You know what? Why don't I drive?

                Oh. It's a very expensive car. Good idea.

                I've always wanted to test-drive a Benz.

                Be my guest, Focker.

                - Hey, sweetie, what are you doing? - Larry said I could drive.

                Oh.

                Let's go. Hurry, hurry. All right. Bye, guys.

                [Pam] See you. [Linda] Thanks for driving.

                [Engine Roaring, Tires Screeching]

                Drives a little better than your Taurus, huh, Greg?

                Come on. Get in the car, honey. Let's go. Hurry up.

                Okay, okay.

                [Tires Screeching] Whoa, Nellie!

                [Larry] Everybody comfortable back there?

                [Tires Screeching]

                You're a real wild man at that wheel there.

                [Chattering]

                [Larry] You got your seat belts on back there? Get your seat belts on.

                Oh, Jesus, Focker!

                [Tires Screeching]

                You're driving like a maniac! Focker,

                Benz drives like a dream, Lar. Let's not

                Whoo. Oh.

                Oh, there's Jack.

                Hey, Jackie. [Engine Rumbling]

                [Engine Rumbling]

                - [Engine Rumbles Louder] - Wanna play, Pops? Let's play.

                [Engine Rumbling, Roaring]

                [Linda] Okay, now, Greg? Greg?

                - [Linda] Greg, no! - [Larry] Whoa! Oh! Oh!

                [Engines Roaring]

                [Tires Screeching]

                Is everything okay, honey?

                Yeah, just trying to make good time. Oh.

                What the heck is the matter with you?

                All right. We're gonna be home. We're gonna get home.

                Whoa! Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa!

                It's not the autobahn. Come on, Greg!

                [Tires Screeching]

                Jesus!

                [Linda] Maybe you should drive after all, honey. We're okay.

                All right.

                Oh, no. No, please.

                Yes! [Bob] Jack just turned.

                You were supposed to make that left at the light,

                Focker.

                [Debbie] I think I'm gonna be sick.

                [Denny] Where does he think he's going?

                [Bob] Home, home, home. [Debbie] What a fun ride.

                Who gave him the keys? [Laughing]

                Okay, we're out. Yeah, we've had enough excitement.

                [Larry] I wonder if he has a license.

                [Bob] Yeah, a license to kill.

                [Chattering, Laughing]

                [Pam] Come on, everybody.

                [Bob] Hey, nice driving, Mario!

                You're a lunatic! [Chattering, Laughing]

                Come on, Linda!

                [Larry] Hey, hey! [Dina Laughing]

                Whoo-hoo!

                [Screaming]

                - [Larry] What in the world-- - [Debbie] Oh, my--

                - [All Talking At Once] - Oh, the dress!

                It was the cat! Goddamn you!

                Dad, Dad-- Dad! Dad! Jinx, I'm gonna--

                - [Shrieking] - Calm down!

                - Where's the cat? - [Bob] Cat got out! Cat got out, Jack!

                [Sniffing] You spray-painted his tail...

                to make him look like Jinxy, didn't you, Focker?

                Greg, what's he talking about?

                Hank MacAtee called me a couple of hours ago and told me he found Jinxy.

                He took his collar and put it on an impostor.

                Then he spray-painted his tail, and then he tried to beat us back here...

                so that he could get rid of the evidence.

                Oh, no.

                Please tell me that's not true, Greg.

                It was just a temporary solution until I could find the real Jinx.

                [Sighing] How could you do something like that?

                - I'm sorry. - What are you going to tell me next?

                That you set Kevin's altar on fire? [Nervous Chuckle]

                Oh, my God.

                Well, it wasn't intentional. I was chasing Jinx up onto the roof.

                I had a smoke, and I think I might have lit something that--

                I don't know what happened. He put so much goddamn lacquer on that thing.

                It was an accident waiting to happen.

                This is very disappointing, Greg.

                Get out of my house, Focker, and take your friend with you.

                So you lied to me about everything, huh, Greg?

                You lied about the cat, about the fire, about the MCATs.

                I didn't lie about the MCATs. Don't you see what's happening here?

                - Your dad has totally turned you against me. - I didn't turn her against you.

                You did that to yourself.

                Jack, please. You didn't like me from the second I walked in here.

                I'm a very accepting person, Focker.

                All I ask for is honesty.

                Oh, honesty?

                You wanna talk about truth and honesty, Jack?

                Okay, let's talk a little truth and honesty.

                Let's talk a little "Operation Ko Samui," Jack.

                What's he talking about, Dad?

                Yeah, that's weird, 'cause I thought there weren't any secrets...

                inside the circle of trust, Jack.

                I don't know what you're talking about. You don't? Huh?

                What's the matter? Cat got your tongue?

                Hey, Pam, guess what.

                Daddy's planning a little covert operation in Thailand for the day after the wedding.

                You are?

                Round and round we go, Jack. Hey.

                I bet everybody would love to hear about your rendezvous...

                in the parking lot of the Oyster Bay Drug and Sundry.

                You know what I'm talking about. Where the guy gave you the passports and the documents.

                Or how about your little phone call in Thai?

                [Scoffs] Jack can't talk Thai. Oh, no, Dina.

                Jack can talk Thai. Jack talk Thai very well.

                I'm sorry, Pam, but your dad is not retired.

                He's still very much in the C.I.A.

                Daddy. What-- He's right.

                He's right. [Stammering] My cover's blown.

                I-l-I am planning...

                a secret operation the day after the wedding.

                - What? - A surprise honeymoon for Deb and Bob.

                You stupid son of a bitch! You just blew it!

                What?

                Ko Samui is an island off the coast of Thailand!

                That guy I was meeting in the parking lot is Thor Svenson, my travel agent.

                - He was giving me their visas. - [Gasping]

                Wow, Thailand. Thanks a lot, J.B. That's something.

                Don't mention it. I just, um--

                You know, if this nursing thing doesn't work out, Focker,

                I'd say you definitely have a career in espionage.

                [Snickering]

                Thanks, Greg.

                Well, I guess I'm gonna go to the airport now.

                I guess you're gonna stay here.

                Pam, l--

                - Gaylord M. Focker? - Gaylord? Gaylord?

                Yeah, that's me.

                - I thought your name was Greg. - It is.

                That's not what it says on the form. I know.

                It's my legal name. Nobody's called me by it since I was in third grade.

                [Denny Snickering]

                [Deliveryman] Whatever.

                Wait, wait, wait, wait. So your name's Gay Focker?

                [Laughing]

                Denny. I'm sorry. It's just it's not

                [Laughing]

                Come on. Now look what you've done. Oh, P-Pammy.

                [Denny] Don't-- Don't go away.

                You're in luck. There is room.

                [Keys Clacking]

                And without a Saturday stay-over, that fare difference will be...

                $    .   .

                Would you want me to book you the seat? Okay. All right.

                Did you want to check any bags today?

                We should be all right with only one usher, don't you think?

                I'm not so sure, Jack.

                Thought you might like to see this.

                - How did you get this? - Oh, I have my sources too.

                I called Gaylord, a.k.a. Greg's parents in Detroit.

                They saved his SAT scores too, in case you're interested.

                Oh, honey. It-- That doesn't matter if he did well on some test.

                What does that prove? Look at this place!

                He almost destroyed the wedding because he lied!

                I love you, Dad,

                but you can be a real jerk sometimes.

                So what if he took the MCATs? He's still not good enough for Pam.

                Who is, Jack?

                Nobody has ever been good enough for your Pam.

                I mean, do you realize that you never even warmed up to Kevin until she broke up with him?

                Maybe it's time you think about what Pam wants.

                Greg, it's me.

                I'm sure you're in the air by now,

                so I guess you'll just get this when you get home.

                Uh--

                Listen, I am so sorry.

                I acted like a complete idiot,

                and I hope that you can forgive me.

                I mean, I-I don't care about the fire or the cat or--

                I mean, I can't believe you actually spray-painted a cat.

                That's actually really gross, but th-the point is that--

                that I understand why you did it, and--

                and I love you.

                I want you to know that I really-- I really, really love you, and, uh--

                When you get this, will you please call me?

                Okay. Bye.

                Marty, listen, I need a commercial flight I.D. scan.

                Interstate from New York La Guardia to Chicago.

                Four-hour sweeps, backwards and forwards.

                Last name: Foxtrot, Oscar, Charlie, Kilo, Echo, Romeo.

                First name: Golf, Alpha, Yankee, Lima--

                Gaylord Focker on Atlantic American flight    departs  :  .

                 :  ? Twenty-three minutes. Thanks. Affirmative.

                Enjoy your flight. Thanks.

                Hello.

                Oh, I'm sorry. We're only boarding rows nine and above right now. You'll have to wait.

                Well, I'm in row eight.

                Please step aside, sir.

                It's just one row. Don't you think it's okay if l--

                We'll call your row momentarily.

                Step aside, sir.

                Hmm.

                Thank you for waiting. We'd like to continue boarding the aircraft now.

                We're now boarding all rows, please. All remaining rows.

                Mm, hello.

                Mm-hmm. Enjoy your flight.

                [Tires Screeching]

                [Horn Honking]

                Excuse me.

                Okay, where's the fire, huh?

                [Woman] Will you hand me that pillow over there?

                - I'm sorry, sir. You're gonna have to check that. - I got it.

                No, I'm sorry. That bag won't fit. No, I'm not-- Hey.

                - I'm not checking my bag, okay? - There's no need to raise your voice, sir.

                I'm not raising my voice. This would be raising my voice to you, okay?

                I don't want to check my bag. By the way, your airline, you suck at checking bags.

                Because I already did that once, and you lost it,

                and then I had everything screwed up very badly for me.

                Okay? I can assure you that your bag...

                will be placed safely below deck with the other luggage.

                Oh, yeah? How do you know my bag will be safe below with the other luggage?

                Are you physically gonna take my bag beneath the plane?

                Are you gonna go with the guys with the earmuffs and put it in there?

                - No. - No? Okay. Then shut your pie hole...

                and listen to me when I say that lam finished...

                with the checking-of-the-bags conversation!

                Sir, we have a policy on this airline that if a bag is this large, we--

                Get your grubby little paws off of my bag, okay?

                It's not like I have a bomb in here. It's not like I want to blow up the plane.

                - Sir! - I wanna stow my bag according to your safety regulations.

                - Sir, sir-- - If you would take a second...

                and take the little sticks out of your head and clean out your ears,

                maybe you would see that I'm a person who has feelings,

                and all I have to do is do what I wanna do!

                All I wanna do is hold onto my bag and not listen to you!

                The only way that I would ever let go of my bag would be if you came over here now...

                and tried to pry it from my dead, lifeless fingers.

                Okay? If you can get it from my kung fu grip, then you can have it.

                Okay? Otherwise, step off, bitch.

                [Gasps]

                Get off of me! Get off of me!

                You got him? Yeah. Ow!

                Hey. Hey! You can't leave your vehicle unattended. Tow it.

                I've got a plane full of people saying you threatened that stewardess.

                I was not threatening her. I was trying to get my bag into the overhead storage thing.

                You were acting like a maniac, and you threatened her with a bomb!

                - I said I didn't have a bomb! - You said "bomb."

                - I said, "It's not like I have a bomb." - You said "bomb" on an airplane.

                - What's wrong with saying "bomb" on an airplane? - You can't say "bomb."

                Bomb, bomb, bomb, bomb, bomb, bomb, bomb, bomb, bomb! You gonna arrest me?

                - You assaulted an airline employee-- - What if I was a bombardier?

                - I got enough to put you away for a few years! - Bomb, bomb, bomb, bomb, bomb!

                - I got enough to put you away for a few years! - Bomb, bomb, bomb, bomb, bomb!

                Norm. Take five. We got a specialist here.

                Bye, Norm.

                Oh, shit. How'd you get here?

                I'm everywhere, Focker.

                I didn't do anything, Jack.

                Yeah, I know. Well, then tell these guys that I'm not a terrorist.

                Listen, Focker. I'm not gonna tell anybody anything until you answer some questions.

                Unless you want to spend the next couple of years of your life in prison,

                you better goddamn well tell me the truth.

                No more lies. You understand? No more lies.

                Did you do this? Just answer the questions.

                Did you have me taken off of that airplane? Just answer the question.

                Put your hands over there. That's it.

                You're sick, you know that?

                Is your name Gaylord Focker? Yes or no?

                Yes. Are you a male nurse?

                Yes. Are you a pothead?

                No. Have you ever smoked pot?

                Yes.

                Did you spray-paint the tail of a cat to pass him off as Mr. Jinx?

                Yes.

                Did you do that because you desperately were seeking my approval?

                Yes. Because you love my daughter Pam?

                Yes. Do you wanna marry her?

                Do you want to marry her?

                I did, until I met you.

                What does that mean?

                I love your daughter, Jack. I love her more than anything.

                But frankly, sir, I'm a little terrified of being your son-in-law.

                This whole weekend has given me a lot of doubts...

                about whether or not I could even survive in your family.

                I think you've got some serious issues.

                If I lighten up, would you consider marrying my daughter?

                Would you lighten up a lot?

                - Yeah. - Yes or no?

                - Yes. - Would you let me and Pam...

                Live our lives and not interfere all the time?

                I promise not interfere in your lives all the time.

                Will you stop making fun of me for being a nurse?

                Could you at least try, maybe, to consider another profession?

                -Jack, yes or no? - Ever?

                - No! - Okay, yes.

                Would you let me and Pam sleep in the same room?

                Don't push it, Focker.

                You're in a real mess.

                If you married my daughter, would you support her...

                in the way that she deserves to be supported?

                - Yes. - Would you be honest and faithful to her?

                Yes.

                Will you devote yourself entirely to her for the rest of your life?

                Of course.

                Gaylord Focker,

                will you be my son-in-law?

                [Door Hinge Creaking]

                Greg?

                I thought you were going back to Chicago?

                Yeah, well, we had a little plane trouble.

                Plus, your dad caught up with me at the airport.

                No. Don't worry.

                It's okay. We worked out a lot of our issues.

                You and my dad worked out a lot of your issues? Mm-hmm.

                Yeah. First he gave me his little human lie detector thing, but I passed.

                Good.

                Yeah, and...

                then he proposed.

                Are you feeling all right?

                Listen. This weekend was a nightmare.

                I had this whole elaborate plan, and then...

                somewhere between giving your sister a black eye...

                and setting the house on fire, it kind of went off track.

                I just-- I love you. I love you so much.

                [Greg Speaking, Indistinct]

                I think he's about to do it, Jack.

                Come on, honey. Give 'em some privacy.

                Shh, shh.

                ...and I think if we can get through...

                what we got through in the last    hours, we could get through anything.

                I think so too.

                And, Greg, I don't-- Wait. Hang on a second.

                Mr. Jinx? Mew, mew, mew, mew.

                Mew, mew, mew, mew.

                [Chuckling] Ji--

                [Gasps] That's a ring.

                I like to think of it as a little circle of trust.

                Pam?

                - Will you marry me? - Yes.

                Yes.

                [Laughing] Yes.

                Attaboy, Greg!

                That "circle of trust" thing? That's mine.

                Oh.

                Well, looks like we got another wedding to plan.

                Yep. Just gotta do one more thing. What's that?

                Meet his parents.

                Jack-- Honey, relax. I'm sure they're wonderful,

                Good night, Jack.

                I mean, they'd have to be, right, to name their son Gaylord Focker.

                [Sighs]

                [Father O'Boyle] Do you, Debra Byrnes, take Robert Banks...

                to be your lawfully wedded husband?

                [Debbie] Yes. I mean, I do.

                I now pronounce you man and wife.

                [Guests Applauding, Cheering]

                Let's just see if you really can flush the toilet, Jinxy.

                ["Puff, the Magic Dragon" Plays On Radio]

                [Videotape Fast-Forwarding]

                - [Toilet Flushing] - I knew it.

                Oh! Shit! [Jiggling Handle]

                - I knew it. - Damn it!

                That's my future son-in-law. What do you think?

                Hello, Jack.

                Oh, look at that. Nice Jack. Hi.

                What's that, Jack? What?

                You're a big, bad C.I.A. man, huh?

                Did they teach you that in the C.I.A.? They teach you that?

                Oh, yeah. What's that, Jack?

                What? Yeah, you thought Puff was just the name of the boy's magical dragon? Uh-huh.

                Not too quick on the uptake, huh, Jack?

                Why don't you ask Denny who's puffin' the magic dragon? Not onto that one, huh?

                Surprising for a big C.I.A. pulse detector.

                Ooh. Hey, hey, check my pulse on this question, Jack.

                Do I think you're a psycho? Yes.

                What? Oh, you like my little gift?

                What? The Jerusalem what?

                What? I can't hear you. Jerusalem toodle-oo-poosey, poosley-loo?

                What? What? Oh, you don't now shit about flowers.

                What's that? You want me to what?

                You have another question? Sure. I got one question for you.

                It's can you deal with that?

                m

                [Handy Newman] When you're a fool in love

                Seems like the skies are always gray

                You turn around There's someone in your way

                And it's you And you're in love

                Never another spring for you

                Never a roin to sing for you

                You're out there on your own

                When you're a fool in love

                [Woman Singing In French]

                [Woman Continues Singing In French]

                m

                [Newman] Never another spring for you

                [Woman Sings In French]

                [Newman] You're out there on your own

                [Newman Woman] When you're a fool in love

FADE IN:


               Moving through a murky haze. Dark blues and greens, shafts 
               of prismed purple. A pale shard appears in the distance.


               Gliding closer, a group of tiny fish dart before the camera.


               We're UNDERWATER. Arriving at the form, it finally sharpens 
               into focus. It's a WOMAN'S BODY submerged in dark water, 
               arms floating lazily at her side. The face is obscured by 
               flowing hair. All that is visible is a pair of COLD, STARING 
               GREEN EYES, which blink closed...


                                                                  MORPH TO:


               ...then open as BLUE EYES, as a DIFFERENT FACE emerges from 
               water. CLAIRE SPENCER awakens from this unsettling dream in 
               her bathtub. She pivots the large BRASS SHOWER HEAD (the 
               kind that moves up and down on a pipe) off to one side, 
               reaches toward her feet and we hear the sound of a plug being 
               pulled.


               INT. BATHROOM - DAY


               A HAZY SHAPE -- accompanied by a whirring sound.


               A steam covered mirror is cleared with a BLOW DRYER. Claire 
               starts to come into focus. The dryer stops. She presses the 
               red G.F.I. button on the socket. ZAP! A big blue spark shoots 
               out. Claire pulls her hand back... and the dryer starts 
               whirring again.


               She clears the mirror and replaces the dryer on a hook. She 
               regards herself in the mirror, and attractive, elegant-looking 
               woman around forty.


               Claire traces a finger along a small but noticeable SCAR 
               above her left eye, then slowly drops the hand to her cheek, 
               as if confirming her existence.


               INT. CLAIRE'S HOUSE - DAY


               Claire, now dressed, presses her face against a door, 
               listening for the sounds of stirring from within. Silence.


               She quietly pushes open the door.


               INT. ROOM - DAY


               Claire makes her way past half-filled boxes and duffels to a 
               window, then pulls the curtains to reveal:


               A LOVELY, WOODED LAKE. It couldn't be more picturesque. A 
               24' SAILBOAT is moored at the dock and an OLD STONE LIGHTHOUSE 
               sits on a point across the lake.


               The sunlight motivates an unconscious groan from A FIGURE 
               still shrouded by covers.


               Claire sits beside the sleeping form. She scans the room 
               briefly, taking in a Greenpeace flag and a picture of a 
               tomboyish ten year-old girl at camp.


               She gently pulls back the covers and peers down at the same 
               face, now a waifish, pretty seventeen year-old, with chopped 
               hair and tiny nose ring. Claire leans over and inhales the 
               sleeping scent of her only daughter, CAITLIN. She places her 
               hand on a cheek. The girl's eyelids flutter softly.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Morning, beauty.


               Caitlin lets out a grunt and rolls over onto her belly.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Let's go. Or we'll never leave on 
                         time.


               From out of the pillow comes Caitlin's voice.


                                     CAITLIN
                              (muffled)
                         I'm totally ready.


               Claire glances around at the piles of unpacked clothes.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Come on, I'll make you some waffles, 
                         maybe we'll squeeze in a trip to the 
                         mall.
                              (beat)
                         Caitlin...


               Claire gently swats at the tiny lump that is Caitlin's behind.


                                     CAITLIN
                         Mother...


               Claire stands and instinctively scoops up some clothes from 
               the floor, then folds and neatly stacks them on a box.


               Caitlin turns her head sideways on the pillow.


                                     CAITLIN
                         You're such a morning person.


               Claire turns at the door.


                                     CLAIRE
                         It is unwise to heckle the keeper of 
                         the plastic.


               She starts to leave. Caitlin calls out.


                                     CAITLIN (O.S.)
                         Blueberries!


               Claire smiles as she closes the door behind her.


               INT. HALLWAY - DAY


               Claire bends down to pick up one of Caitlin's socks. When 
               she stands, something catches her eye out a window. She gazes 
               down, transfixed.


               ANGLE


               Through a stand of trees over a HIGH WOODEN FENCE, A YOUNG 
               COUPLE is in the midst of a heated argument next door. Claire 
               watches as the HUSBAND, a large imposing man with an unruly 
               shock of red hair, snarls at his wife across the hood of 
               their huge old Buick. She tries to get a glimpse of the woman, 
               but all that's visible is THE BACK OF HER BLOND HEAD.


               A TAN, SINEWY ARM encircles Claire's waist. She lets out a 
               small gasp as a hand closes on her breast. It's Claire's 
               husband, DR. NORMAN SPENCER, nibbling gently at her neck.


               He's older than she, pushing fifty, with silver streaks 
               beginning to permeate the shaggy mop of hair that makes him 
               look more like a preppy rocker or a lacrosse coach than the 
               prominent academic that he is. Claire, however, can't take 
               her eyes off the scene below.


                                     NORMAN
                         They at it again?


               Claire nods.


                                     NORMAN
                         Christ, that's twice in... When did 
                         they move in?


                                     CLAIRE
                         I think three...


                                     NORMAN
                         Three weeks.


               She continues to gaze downward. The man leans over the hood, 
               murmuring darkly at his wife, though for Claire and Norman 
               the scene is entirely silent.


                                     CLAIRE
                         What's their name?


                                     NORMAN
                         Feur, I think. Psych department. 
                         Figures. They're all psychotic.


               Outside, Mr. Feur turns and walks toward his house. Norman 
               begins, once again, to nuzzle Claire. Her eyes close, but 
               then she gently demurs.


                                     CLAIRE
                         She's awake.


                                     NORMAN
                         We'll be quiet. Quick and quiet.


               She turns to him.


                                     CLAIRE
                         I don't want to be either.


               He smiles. A really good smile. The lips and tongue on his 
               faded T-shirt mark him as a 'Stones fan.


                                     NORMAN
                         When's she out of here?


                                     CLAIRE
                         Norman Spencer.


               Norman gives up. He busses her cheek.


                                     NORMAN
                              (moving toward the 
                              stairs)
                         Alright. I can't take the rejection. 
                         I'm going to class.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Don't.


                                     NORMAN
                         Claire, I have to show up for the --


                                     CLAIRE
                         It's Saturday.


               Norman stops.


                                     NORMAN
                         I knew that. You think I didn't know 
                         that?


               She smiles at him. After a beat:


                                     NORMAN
                         It's today?


                                     CLAIRE
                              (wistfully)
                         Yep.


               They share a warm, poignant look. He turns and moves down 
               the stairs.


                                     NORMAN
                              (calling over his 
                              shoulder)
                         We're going to have to leave by three 
                         if we want to beat the traffic.


               Claire returns her gaze to the scene below as Mr. Feur says 
               something ominous to his wife, then stalks into the house.


                                     NORMAN (O.S.)
                         Claire?


                                     CLAIRE
                              (absently)
                         Three o'clock.


               ANGLE


               Mrs. Feur drops her face into her hands.


               EXT. SIDEWALK CAFE - DAY


               Claire peruses her "to do" list as Caitlin munches a panini.


                                     CLAIRE
                         ...and I still think we should get 
                         you some mittens.


               Caitlin puts down the sandwich and regards her mother warmly.


               The bond between them is palpable.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Do you have a scarf?


                                     CAITLIN
                         Hey.


               Claire looks up from her little pad of paper.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Yes?


                                     CAITLIN
                         It's only two hours away.


                                     CLAIRE
                         I know that.


                                     CAITLIN
                         I'll come back all the time.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Of course you will.


                                     CAITLIN
                         I'm just saying, you're going to be 
                         fine.


               Claire smiles.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Sweetheart, I've known this day was 
                         coming for a long time. I've got 
                         your father and the garden and the 
                         new house. You really don't have to 
                         worry.


               Caitlin smiles back and nods, her face betraying some concern. 
               Claire takes her hand.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Really.


               She nods reassuringly and pulls Caitlin into an embrace. Her 
               eyes close.


                                     CAITLIN (V.O.)
                         Mother...


               EXT. COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - DAY


               Claire's frozen in the hug.


                                     CAITLIN
                              (beat)
                         Mom.


               Her eyes open. Widen to reveal Claire, holding Caitlin on 
               the college campus. The URBAN SKYLINE looms in the background.


                                     CAITLIN
                         I have'ta go.


               After a moment's hesitation, she releases her grip. Caitlin 
               glances over her shoulder to make sure no one's witnessed 
               this overt display of maternal affection.


                                     CAITLIN
                         I'll call you.


               Claire produces an ENVELOPE, which she presses into her 
               daughter's hand. It's a book of TRAIN TICKETS.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Come home anytime.


               Caitlin looks at Norman.


                                     NORMAN
                         Really gonna leave me, huh?


               She nods. They share a tender look.


                                     NORMAN
                         Be good.


               She throws her arm, briefly, tightly around his waist. A bit 
               overwhelmed, he slowly brings his hand to the back of 
               Caitlin's head. After a moment, she steps back...


                                     CAITLIN
                         Bye.


               ...then turns and makes her way toward the large, old Columbia 
               dorm. A banner is draped across its portals which reads:


                                 "WELCOME CLASS OF '04."


               Claire watches her daughter melt into a crowd of similarly 
               shaggy freshmen, smoking and talking on the front steps. Her 
               eyes are shining. Norman wraps an arm around her waist as 
               she daps at a tear with a Kleenex.


                                     CLAIRE
                              (smiling)
                         I almost made it.


               They turn and head for the car. Claire sneaks one last look 
               over her shoulder.


               ANGLE


               Caitlin glancing back at Claire with an apprehensive smile.


               INT. NORMAN AND CLAIRE'S ROOM - NIGHT


               Claire walks in from the bathroom wearing a sexy cotton 
               nightgown. Norman is in bed, absorbed in some notes. She 
               gets into bed, then picks up a thick text from beside him 
               and starts reading. After a moment:


                                     NORMAN
                         Whatcha reading?


                                     CLAIRE
                              (reading the cover, 
                              sexy voice)
                         Genetic repair mechanisms in 
                         eukaryotic organisms.


                                     NORMAN
                              (slight smile)
                         How is it?


               Claire snuggles up.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Excellent. Couple of Swedish sailor 
                         cells just gang divided a virginal 
                         cheerleader cell.


                                     NORMAN
                              (lost in his book)
                         Nice.
                              (beat)
                         Almost done.


               She pulls slightly away.


                                     CLAIRE
                         If you have to work...


                                     NORMAN
                         No, no. I'm just about...
                              (beat)
                         There.


               He places his book on the bedside table and turns to her.


                                     NORMAN
                         How are you?


                                     CLAIRE
                         Fine.


                                     NORMAN
                         It's okay if you're not.


                                     CLAIRE
                         I am, really.


                                     NORMAN
                         It's just she's been the focus for a 
                         while.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Not the focus.


                                     NORMAN
                         You know what I mean.


               Claire thinks for a moment.


                                     CLAIRE
                         To tell you the truth... I'm excited.


                                     NORMAN
                         You are...


                                     CLAIRE
                         To get my life back. To have some 
                         time for myself. Some time for us.


               He caresses her.


                                     NORMAN
                         You did a great job. She's a good 
                         kid.


                                     CLAIRE
                         We did.


               There's a weighty pause.


                                     NORMAN
                         It's just us now.


                                     CLAIRE
                         I know.


               He kisses her.


                                     NORMAN
                         Tired?


                                     CLAIRE
                         Nope.


                                     NORMAN
                         Wanna fool around?


                                     CLAIRE
                         Yup.


               They start to kiss. It's slow and a bit methodical in the 
               manner of long time lovers. Suddenly, the SOUND OF A WOMAN 
               WAILING can be heard. They stop.


                                     NORMAN
                         Did you...


                                     CLAIRE
                         Shhh.


               They listen. The sounds start to become louder. It is clearly 
               two people in the throes of some very vocal and savage love 
               making.


                                     NORMAN
                         Jesus.


               He walks over and closes the window. It doesn't help.


                                     NORMAN
                         I guess they're making up.


               The woman's moaning becomes embarrassingly loud.


                                     CLAIRE
                         What is he doing to her?


               They lie together in silence as the cacophony drones on.


                                     NORMAN
                         And we moved out here for the quiet.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Mmm.


               Beat. The mood has passed.


                                     NORMAN
                         Maybe we should just...


                                     CLAIRE
                         Tomorrow.


                                     NORMAN
                         I'm finished at three. No. Squash 
                         with Stan.


                                     CLAIRE
                         After that.


                                     NORMAN
                         I'll be there.


               Beat.


                                     NORMAN
                         Love you.


               She smiles.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Night.


               They lie together in the darkness as the Feurs finally climax.


               INT. CAITLIN'S ROOM - DAY


               Claire pushes open the door to Caitlin's room carrying an 
               armful of FOLDED LAUNDRY. She moves quickly to the bureau, 
               not wanting to spend much time in here, then grabs a TINY 
               BLACK TOP from the pile, and drops it into a drawer. She's 
               just about to close it, when something catches her eye.


               CLAIRE'S POV


               She drops the laundry and slowly pulls a tattered, old 
               JUILLIARD T-SHIRT with a very seventies logo from the drawer.


               Claire gazes around the room, which is a reliquary of 
               Caitlin's recently concluded childhood; PICTURES, TROPHIES, 
               STUFFED ANIMALS.


               She brings the now faded T-shirt to her face and drinks in 
               the smells. She stares down at the word "Juilliard."


                                                              MATCH CUT TO:


               INT. BASEMENT - DAY


               "JUILLIARD"... now it's on the same T-shirt only Claire's 
               wearing it and she's much younger. It's an old photograph in 
               an album. Younger Norman stands next to her in the shot, his 
               arm draped around her waist. A CELLO CASE stands beside her.


               Claire glances around at several hastily unpacked boxes and 
               sees propped in the corner... THE CELLO CASE. She gazes at 
               other photos.


               -- Claire in her wedding dress, Norman beside her in a tux 
               with a very wide bow-tie.


               -- Claire and Norman in front of a UNIVERSITY BUILDING. A 
               tiny Caitlin rests on her hip.


               Claire's chin begins to tremble and she chokes out a sob.


               EXT. FRONT YARD - DAY


               Her face streaked with tears, Claire stumbles out into the 
               immaculately manicured ROSE GARDEN.


               The yard is surrounded by a HIGH WOODEN FENCE. She collapses 
               into a lawn chair as the tears begin to subside. Suddenly, 
               she hears something coming from next door.


               She cocks her head and attempts to make out the sound. It 
               is, ironically, the sound of a WOMAN CRYING. Claire makes 
               her way over to the fence. The women's sobbing becomes more 
               plaintive and fevered.


               She places her face against the prickly, vine covered fence 
               and tries to peer through the crack. All she can make out is 
               A DARK BLUE BLUR that seems to be rocking. Claire gathers 
               her nerve and calls out...


                                     CLAIRE
                         Hello...


               There's no reaction.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Mrs. Feur?


               The sobbing chokes down to a breathless whimpering. The blue 
               shape vanishes from view.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Wait a minute. I just want --


               Something bumps against the fence. Claire draws back. She 
               hears heavy breathing.


                                     MRS. FEUR
                              (sniffling)
                         Who are you?


                                     CLAIRE
                         It's Mrs... It's Claire... Spencer. 
                         From next door. Is everything --


                                     MRS. FEUR
                         You're the flower lady.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Um... yes.


                                     MRS. FEUR
                         I've seen you. From the window.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Is everything alright?


               Claire leans closer to the tiny crack. She sees a fleshy 
               blur and what might be part of an eye. There's no response, 
               just the breathing.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Hello?


                                     MRS. FEUR
                         I'm not...


               She seems on the verge of losing it again.


                                     MRS. FEUR
                         He's so... it's too much... and I 
                         can't... I can't breath...


                                     CLAIRE
                         Who? Your husband?


                                     MRS. FEUR
                         And I'm afraid. Oh god, I'm so afraid 
                         of...


               She trails off.


                                     CLAIRE
                         What? What are you afraid of?


                                     MRS. FEUR
                         I can't, no, no, I can't...


               Claire edges closer to the crack.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Tell me. Please.


                                     MRS. FEUR
                         That I'll just... that one day I'll 
                         just... disappear.


               Beat. Claire's taken aback by this admission.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Tell me. I can help you.


                                     MRS. FEUR
                         How? How can you help me? With your 
                         flowers and your perfect life...


                                     CLAIRE
                         That's not... It's not like that.


                                     MRS. FEUR
                         I've never even met you.


                                     CLAIRE
                         I know. And I'm sorry. I've been 
                         consumed with... my daughter left... 
                         for school.


                                     MRS. FEUR
                         This fence... it's so...


                                     CLAIRE
                         I'm sorry. It's for the flowers. Why 
                         don't you...


               Tires can be heard crunching the gravel as a car pulls into 
               the Feur's driveway.


                                     MRS. FEUR
                         Oh God. He's back. I'm sorry. Please 
                         forget that I... I don't know what 
                         I'm saying. Please...


                                     CLAIRE
                         Wait! Don't go...


               Claire listens to the sound of NAKED FOOTSTEPS, followed by 
               a LARGE FRONT DOOR swinging shut. A CAR DOOR swings open and 
               a MAN'S SHOES follow down the path.


               Claire pulls back from the crack and leans against the fence 
               as the door closes a second time. She sits there for a moment 
               listening, but all is quiet.


                                     CLAIRE (V.O.)
                         She sounded terrified.


               INT. DINING ROOM - NIGHT


               Claire and Norman eat dinner. A rainstorm pelts the windows.


                                     NORMAN
                         Of what?


                                     CLAIRE
                         Of him I think.


                                     NORMAN
                         Did she say that?


                                     CLAIRE
                         More or less.


               Norman chews.


                                     NORMAN
                         Honey, they're young. They're probably 
                         newlyweds.


                                     CLAIRE
                         I'm telling you. There was something 
                         in her voice...


                                     NORMAN
                         Remember how we were?


                                     CLAIRE
                         Not like this. We were never like 
                         this.
                              (beat)
                         I want to go over there. After dinner, 
                         we can --


                                     NORMAN
                         Why?


                                     CLAIRE
                         To make sure she's all right.


               Norman puts down his fork.


                                     NORMAN
                         Claire, honey, we are not going to 
                         march next door and accuse our new 
                         neighbor of --


                                     CLAIRE
                              (overlapping)
                         That's not what I'm sug --


                                     NORMAN
                         ...when tonight they'll probably be 
                         keeping us awake.


                                     CLAIRE
                         But what if something happens?


                                     NORMAN
                         Claire...


                                     CLAIRE
                         I'd never be able to live with myself --


                                     NORMAN
                              (reassuring)
                         Nothing's going to happen.
                              (beat)
                         Besides, I have to work tonight. The 
                         conference is in less than two weeks. 
                         I've got to stay focused on that for 
                         just a little longer.
                              (beat)
                         This is...


                                     CLAIRE
                         I know.


                                     NORMAN
                         It's what I've been working for.


               She glances down at her untouched plate.


                                     CLAIRE
                         I just wish you could have heard 
                         her.


                                     NORMAN
                         Look, I'll call Harvey Tomes in the 
                         Psych department, see what I can 
                         find out.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Promise?


               He gives her a "Didn't I just say so" look. She smiles.


                                     CLAIRE
                         I'll make you some coffee.


               She reaches for his plate to clear it. Norman grabs her hand 
               and kisses it.


               INT. NORMAN AND CLAIRE'S ROOM - NIGHT


               Norman snores softly. Claire is awakened by the continuing 
               STORM. She pads out to Norman's turreted library. Rain pelts 
               the glass. Her face is briefly illuminated by the LIGHTHOUSE 
               BEAM.


               She hears the sound of a DOOR CLOSING and moves to get a 
               better view of the Feur's. Nothing but blackness. Just as 
               she's turning to go back to bed. A LIGHTNING FLASH lights up 
               the night. Claire's eyes go wide.


               CLAIRE'S POV


               In the split second of brilliance, she sees Mr. Feur, in 
               shirt-sleeves, drenched, dragging A LARGE DUFFEL toward the 
               open trunk of his car.


                                     CLAIRE
                              (in a hoarse whisper)
                         Norman!


               He's dead to the world. She calls to him again.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Norman, you have to look at this!


                                     NORMAN
                         Mmnph.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Hurry...


               Another flash illuminates... Norman at her side.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Look!


               ...an EMPTY DRIVEWAY, then blackness.


                                     NORMAN
                         What is it? What's the matter?


               She stares down into the darkness.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Nothing. There was... I thought I 
                         saw something.


                                     NORMAN
                         Is it gone?


               THE BEACON illuminates the empty driveway. She nods.


                                     NORMAN
                         Come on, let's go back to bed.


               Yet another bolt of lightning reveals Claire, still at the 
               window.


               EXT. BACKYARD - MORNING


               Claire sets up a camera and tripod. She steps back and aims 
               her camera. She glances up at a large upstairs window at the 
               FEUR'S HOUSE. One side of the curtain seems to be pulled 
               open, but no one's there.


               Feeling self-conscious, she turns back to the camera. The 
               morning sun hits the flowers just right and she SNAPS SEVERAL 
               PICTURES OF THEM against her lovely house.


               She glances back at the Feur's window. The CURTAIN IS NOW 
               CLOSED.


               She walks over to the fence and tries to peek through it.


               When this doesn't work, she drags a lawn chair over and peers 
               across the fence. She can barely see over, but glimpses:


               A DEEP FURROW in the mud of the driveway. Just then, a car 
               pulls into the driveway, Claire scrambles down from her perch.


               EXT. DRIVEWAY - DAY


               Claire walks out to find her best friend, JODY, pretty, in 
               her forties, wearing hip, hippie-ish clothes.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Hey there.


               Jody hugs her.


                                     JODY
                         How you holding up?


                                     CLAIRE
                         Good. I'm good.


                                     JODY
                         You are?


                                     CLAIRE
                         Why does everyone find that so 
                         surprising?


                                     JODY
                              (are you kidding?)
                         Cause... your... only daughter just 
                         went away to school... who you were 
                         incredibly close with and I'd be 
                         tripping...


                                     CLAIRE
                         Okay, I'm a little tender.


                                     JODY
                         Well good. So you're human.


                                     CLAIRE
                         And so far my day has consisted of 
                         taking pictures of my roses for the 
                         garden club.


                                     JODY
                         Wow. Got here just in time.
                              (reaching into her 
                              bag)
                         I brought you this.


               She proffers several homemade tea bags.


                                     CLAIRE
                         What is it?


                                     JODY
                         Kambucha mushroom tea...


                                     CLAIRE
                         Jody --


                                     JODY
                         It soothes heart-ache and promotes 
                         psychic wellness. Sela suggested I 
                         bring --


                                     CLAIRE
                         You're discussing me with your 
                         psychic?


                                     JODY
                         She's not a psychic. Just a very 
                         enlightened spirit.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Thanks, but I'm fine.


                                     JODY
                              (pressing it into her 
                              hand)
                         So you'll have some later.
                              (beat)
                         Notice anything... different?


               Claire gives her friend the once over, then notices the mint 
               Karman-Ghia behind her.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Oh my god. You bought it.


                                     JODY
                         Yep.


                                     CLAIRE
                         It's niiice.


                                     JODY
                         Beautiful thing, alimony. Lose a 
                         husband, get a car. Think it'll help 
                         me pick up dudes?


                                     CLAIRE
                         Absolutely.


                                     JODY
                         Listen, I've gotta run. I just thought 
                         I'd stop by and see if you want to 
                         take the boat out, say Thursday 
                         morning?


                                     CLAIRE
                         You got it.


               Jody grins.


                                     JODY
                         See you then.


               Jody drives off. Claire walks down the driveway to her front 
               door and sees Mr. Feur staring at her from a window. She 
               starts to wave, but the curtain is drawn shut.


               Claire arrives at the front door and reaches out to touch 
               the doorknob. She stops. A FAINT RUSTLING can be heard from 
               within. Claire quietly opens the door and moves into:


               INT. FOYER - DAY


               Claire stops inside the door. Now it sounds like WHISPERING.


               Two voices, tense, impassioned. It seems to be coming from 
               Norman's study. She gathers her nerve, then bursts into the 
               room.


               INT. NORMAN'S STUDY - DAY


               But the whispering has suddenly stopped.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Hello?


               The lovely circular room is completely empty. She looks 
               around, puzzled. Cooper, the family's aging lab, casually 
               ambles over.


                                     CLAIRE
                              (to Cooper)
                         Please tell me you heard that.


               EXT. LAKE - DAY


               Claire and Cooper, out on a walk, emerge onto large rocks at 
               the water's edge. Claire tosses a long stick for Cooper, who 
               bolts out onto the LONG WOODEN DOCK. Claire gazes at the 
               LIGHTHOUSE across the lake and a long BRIDGE in the distance.


               Cooper starts BARKING and looking down into the water.


               Claire arrives at Cooper's side and stares down into the 
               dark water.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Cooper... what do you see?


               She looks down and sees nothing but her own reflection. After 
               a moment, she notices a FAINT WHITE SHAPE directly in the 
               reflection of her face. Cooper rumbles a low growl. The shape 
               seems to be gaining definition.


               RRRING!


               Claire gasps quietly, then reaches into a pocket in her 
               sweater and pulls out a cordless phone.


                                     CLAIRE
                              (into phone)
                         Hi.


                                     NORMAN (V.O.)
                              (on the other end)
                         I'm stuck here for another couple of 
                         hours.


               Claire's smile fades.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Oh.


                                     NORMAN (V.O.)
                         Unless you need me to come home...


                                     CLAIRE
                         No, no. It's fine.


               Claire slowly leans out over the water to check her 
               reflection...


                                     NORMAN (V.O.)
                         You sure?


               ...but the shape is gone.


                                     NORMAN (V.O.)
                         Claire?


                                     CLAIRE
                         Huh? Absolutely. Take your time.


               She clicks off the phone and looks down at the calm water.


               INT. WORK ROOM - NIGHT


               Claire sits in a small workroom at a computer. She focuses 
               intently on the screen.


               ANGLE


               It's ALICE'S COMPUTER SOLITAIRE. She flips the last card and 
               an animated Queen of Hearts, accompanied by a series of 
               musical notes, parades across the screen.


                                     QUEEN OF HEARTS
                              (on computer)
                         You lost! Off with your head!


               Claire hits "New Game" and watches as a fresh hand of cyber 
               solitaire is dealt. She suddenly has a thought and disappears 
               into the kitchen.


               INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT


               She glances at Jody's tea, smiles, then refills her glass of 
               red wine. She picks up the phone from its cradle and moves 
               into:


               INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT


               She dials a number. LOUD REGGAE can be heard blaring through 
               the phone.


                                     CLAIRE
                              (straining to be heard)
                         Hello? I'm looking for Caitlin 
                         Spencer. She's in 314... Well, could 
                         you check?


               She plugs one ear.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Oh. Well, just tell her that her 
                         mother called. Her mother. Thank 
                         you. Excuse me, how can you study 
                         with that?


               The noise abruptly stops. Claire clicks off the phone and 
               replaces it in the sweater pocket. She tunes the stereo to a 
               classical music station.


               INT. WORK ROOM - NIGHT


               She walks in, places the cordless phone on a BASE UNIT, then 
               hears a different set of musical notes from the computer.


               She stares at the screen, stunned.


               ANGLE


               The game has been finished. Cards with faces swarm chaotically 
               across the screen with the message: YOU WIN!


                                     CLAIRE
                         Oh. Kay.


               Without warning, the radio dial rips cacophonously past 
               several stations and comes to a stop on some angry, punkish 
               rock and roll.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Jesus...


               She bolts around a corner to the stereo. The music is chaotic 
               and deafening. She finds Cooper growling at... no one. She 
               turns off the stereo. Cooper suddenly bolts down the hall. 
               She follows him.


               INT. FOYER - NIGHT


               The foyer's empty, but the front door is open. Claire 
               nervously walks out and looks around.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Cooper!


               POV - THE GARDEN


               No sign of the dog.


               Claire turns to go back inside. When she touches the doorknob, 
               she hears the whispering again. A fleeting shadow draws her 
               eye to a COAT RACK MIRROR which reflects directly into the 
               study.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Hello...?!


               The whispering stops.


               INT. NORMAN'S LAB - NIGHT


               Claire walks in to find Norman surrounded by several GRAD 
               STUDENTS. At school he's a very different man; pressed shirt 
               and tie, hair neatly brushed back.


               They're performing some unseen procedure on a live sheep in 
               a containment harness. She stops by the door to watch him.


                                     NORMAN
                         ...and then what... Courtney?


               An intense ASIAN GIRL answers.


                                     COURTNEY
                         We administer the Halothane.


                                     NORMAN
                         Dosage?


               She glances at her notes.


                                     COURTNEY
                         Three point five cc's.


                                     NORMAN
                         Excellent. Properties? Andrew from 
                         downtown...


               Andrew, tall razor thin, was waiting for this.


                                     ANDREW
                         An organic, neuromuscular blocking 
                         agent, which when administered in 
                         aerosol form temporarily renders the 
                         subject immobile.


                                     NORMAN
                         Nothing but net.


               He measures out the liquid from a blue plastic bottle into 
               an apparatus connected to an inhalation mask on the sheep.


                                     NORMAN
                         Prudence here's an old friend.


               He moves to the sheep's head and strokes it as he nods to 
               Courtney who turns a valve on the apparatus. The sheep 
               suddenly goes completely still. Norman moves around and begins 
               a brief procedure.


                                     NORMAN
                         I try to stay on her good side because 
                         I owe her my career and most of our 
                         grant money. Why else?


               He completes the procedure. They look at him blankly.


                                     NORMAN
                         Always do unto others as you'd have 
                         others do unto your ewe.


               Groans, laughter. He stops Claire.


                                     NORMAN
                         That'll do it. Write this up for 
                         Tuesday!


               Andrew and Amy tend to Prudence, the rest leave. Claire moves 
               over to him. They kiss. Norman packs notes and some of the 
               chemicals into a LEATHER CASE.


                                     NORMAN
                              (warm)
                         What are you doing here?


                                     CLAIRE
                         There were some noises. I didn't 
                         want to disturb you.


               She watches as the sheep slowly becomes reanimated and is 
               led out of the room.


                                     NORMAN
                         What do you mean? Some noises where?


                                     CLAIRE
                         In the house. I was scared.


                                     NORMAN
                         Did you call the police?


                                     CLAIRE
                         No. Can you drive me home? I'll bring 
                         you back in the morning.


                                     NORMAN
                         Of course.


               He takes her arm.


               INT. THE FOYER - NIGHT


               Norman pushes open the front door. Cooper pads over, wagging 
               his tail. They walk together past the stereo into...


               INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT


               ...the living room. All is quiet. They move into...


               INT. NORMAN'S STUDY - NIGHT


               It's undisturbed. Norman checks the window locks.


                                     CLAIRE
                         It was there. This angry music all 
                         by itself. And I heard whispering.


                                     NORMAN
                         What kind of whispering?


                                     CLAIRE
                         I don't know. Just... whispering.


               He nods as Cooper appears.


                                     NORMAN
                         What'd you see, Coop?


               The dog stares blankly.


                                     CLAIRE
                              (to Cooper)
                         Tell him!


               Norman smiles.


               INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT


               Norman sits on the bed and pulls off his shoes.


                                     NORMAN
                         I'm gonna have the police check on 
                         the house.


               Claire leans against the window sill.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Oh great, "Can you look in on my 
                         wife, she's hearing voices?" Wait'll 
                         that gets around.


               He walks over to her.


                                     NORMAN
                         I've got the conference next week. I 
                         want you to feel safe.


                                     CLAIRE
                         I do, I do. I'm sure I'm just... how 
                         was your day?


               He goes to his dresser and fishes a little joint from a box 
               in his dresser.


                                     NORMAN
                         Think I may have cracked it.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Really?


               She produces a match and lights it. They sit on the bed.


                                     NORMAN
                         I think so. Maybe.


                                     CLAIRE
                         You are so brilliant.


                                     NORMAN
                         Yep.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Madame Curie, Jonas Salk, Norman 
                         Spencer...


                                     NORMAN
                              (smiling)
                         You know what that does to me.


               She takes a little puff on the joint as he kisses her neck.


                                     NORMAN
                              (stopping)
                         Ohmigod. You'll never believe... I 
                         saw Schumway...


                                     CLAIRE
                         You're kidding.


                                     NORMAN
                         He's here giving some arcane spiel 
                         for the physics department, so Bob 
                         Shine introduces us...


                                     CLAIRE
                         Wow.


               He nods, Claire passes the joint back.


                                     NORMAN
                         And he says... you'll fucking love 
                         this, he says, "Doctor Spencer, I am 
                         a great admirer of your work..."


                                     CLAIRE
                         Well, that's nice.


                                     NORMAN
                         "...especially Spencer's Theorem..."


                                     CLAIRE
                              (overlapping)
                         Oh, no...


                                     NORMAN
                         "...of Perpetual Distances."
                              (beat)
                         Everybody's checking their shoelaces. 
                         Pins drop. "I'm afraid you've mistaken 
                         me," I say...


                                     CLAIRE
                              (overlapping)
                         That's...


                                     NORMAN
                         "...for my father."


                                     CLAIRE
                         I'm so sorry.


                                     NORMAN
                         Didn't know he was dead, every 
                         stinking paper on the globe.


                                     CLAIRE
                         That's just mean.
                              (indicating joint)
                         Oh. Jody wanted to know if I could 
                         get her some.


                                     NORMAN
                              (quickly glancing 
                              over)
                         Did you tell her?


                                     CLAIRE
                         What? No. No.


                                     NORMAN
                         You didn't?


                                     CLAIRE
                              (with a smile)
                         Norman, you are so funny about that. 
                         No, I didn't.


               He takes a little toke, then vanishes into the bathroom.


                                     NORMAN (O.S.)
                         Cause that would be really --


               She lays back on the bed. Sounds of flushing.


                                     CLAIRE
                         I didn't.


               He reappears without the joint.


                                     NORMAN
                         Sorry. You understand.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Did you call about the Feurs?


                                     NORMAN
                         Oh, right. Yes. Harvey says the guy's 
                         a sweetheart. Wouldn't hurt a fly.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Huh.


               Claire ponders this. Norman turns off the light and joins 
               her on the bed. He kisses her knee.


                                     NORMAN
                         Do the brilliant Norman stuff some 
                         more.


               Then starts working his way up her thigh.


                                     NORMAN
                         And speak up.


               Claire smiles.


               INT. LIVING ROOM - AFTERNOON


               Claire sits frozen, cello between her legs, bow hovering in 
               position. After an uncomfortable long pause, she touches bow 
               to string, drawing in a breath at the power of the sound.


               Claire takes another deep breath, then launches into a 
               beautiful and melancholy piece of music. She's very, very 
               good. Eyes closed. Her body begins to sway slightly as her 
               left hand vibratos like butterfly wings on the neck.


               She reaches a difficult transition and falters. She seems 
               almost surprised. She attacks the transition again, and again 
               falters. Claire bites her lower lip and tries yet again, 
               this time failing completely.


               She sits back in the chair, despondent. Almost as an 
               afterthought, she sadly drags the bow across strings. At the 
               end of the tone, something catches her ear. She can just 
               make out the HINT OF A FAINT FEMININE VOICE echoing the tone.


               She sits up and plays a different note, then another. Each 
               time the soft mournful voice becomes more distinct. Finally 
               she plays a sharp, higher pitched note. The voice echoes 
               with a distinct, unsettling shriek.


               CRASH!


               INT. NORMAN'S STUDY - DUSK


               Claire walks in and sees:


               INSERT --


               Lying on the floor... A FRAMED NEWSPAPER PHOTOGRAPH OF NORMAN 
               AND CLAIRE.


               The caption announces that he's being promoted to the 
               "distinguished DUPONT CHAIR IN GENETICS." Through the spider-
               webbed glass, Norman can be seen shaking hands with an older 
               academic, hugging a smiling Claire to his side.


               Claire kneels down to gather the picture. A single shard of 
               glass is missing. She finds it a foot away by a distinctive 
               knot in the wood floor.


               She notices a COPPER GLINT in the point of glass, but when 
               she moves it, it's gone. She places the pieces of broken 
               glass on the frame and stands.


               Out of the window directly in front of her sees: Mr. Feur, 
               removing a DIRT COVERED SHOVEL from his trunk. She glances 
               down at the picture, then back up at Mr. Feur, who carries 
               the shovel around back.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Oh no...


               Claire wraps up the broken picture. She hears a car door 
               slam and glances out the window in time to see Mr. Feur 
               driving off.


               EXT. GARDEN - DAY


               A stiff autumn breeze. Claire stands at the fence.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Mrs. Feur?


               She looks through the tiny crack. Nothing.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Hello?
                              (beat)
                         Are you there?


               Silence.


               EXT. THE FEUR'S - DAY


               Claire glances down as she walks past THE FURROW. She looks 
               up at the house, which seems quite placid, then slowly heads 
               around back.


               EXT. FEUR'S BACK PORCH - DAY


               She takes in the lake view from the large porch. The wind is 
               really blowing. Her eye catches on something. Propped against 
               the back door...


               THE SOIL COVERED SHOVEL


               Claire takes a pinch of soil from the shovel and tastes it, 
               then knocks at the back door. There's no answer. She knocks 
               again. Nothing. She's turning to go, then the door swings 
               open. The smile fades from Claire's face.


               CLAIRE'S POV


               The immense MR. FEUR filling the doorway.


                                     MR. FEUR
                         Yes?


                                     CLAIRE
                         Um...


                                     MR. FEUR
                         I'm running late here. I just came 
                         back for my briefcase.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Right. Well, I wanted to stop by to 
                         welcome you to the uh, to the 
                         neighborhood. I'm Claire Spencer. 
                         From next door.


                                     MR. FEUR
                         This really isn't a good time.


               He starts to close the door.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Well maybe your wife...


                                     MR. FEUR
                              (growing cold)
                         She isn't here.


                                     CLAIRE
                         When... when will she be back?


                                     MR. FEUR
                         I don't know.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Oh-kay...


                                     MR. FEUR
                         I have to go.


               Slam. And Claire is staring at a closed door.


                                     JODY (V.O.)
                         What do you mean she's gone?


               EXT. LAKE - DAY


               Claire and Jody knife slowly through the water in the 
               Spencer's sailboat heading back toward the dock, the OLD 
               LIGHTHOUSE, the BRIDE in the background.


                                     CLAIRE
                         She's not there. I haven't seen her 
                         since that morning. Well, I mean, 
                         I've never actually seen her, but 
                         I'm telling you, she's disappeared.


               Jody finishes securing a line. The breeze is mild, so they 
               just cruise with the wind.


                                     JODY
                         What are you saying?


               Claire just looks at her.


                                     JODY
                         You think he killed her?


                                     CLAIRE
                         I don't know. When you say it, it 
                         sounds crazy. But what else could it 
                         all be?


               Jody shakes her head.


                                     CLAIRE
                         I mean, he's so kind of grim and 
                         daunting, and she sounded terrified 
                         of something.


               Claire glances over at Jody.


                                     CLAIRE
                              (laughing to herself)
                         Listen to me. I sound like some middle-
                         aged Nancy Drew.


               Jody regards her. After a beat:


                                     JODY
                         Know what I think?


                                     CLAIRE
                         What?


                                     JODY
                         Seance.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Jody, no...


                                     JODY
                         Telling you...


                                     CLAIRE
                              (overlapping)
                         ...no... no... no...


                                     JODY
                         Just bought this beautiful antique 
                         Ouija.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Please. That's all I need.


               Jody shrugs, "Have it your way." Beat.


                                     JODY
                         Hey, look.


               CLAIRE'S HOUSE across the lake.


                                     JODY
                         So pretty.


               CLAIRE'S POV


               A FIGURE in the turreted window of Norman's study.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Someone's there.


                                     JODY
                         What?


                                     CLAIRE
                         In the window. Norman's at work.


                                     JODY
                         I don't...


               Claire looks over at Jody.


                                     CLAIRE
                              (pointing)
                         There. In the study. Don't you see --


               She looks again -- nothing.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Wow. I'm losing it.


                                     JODY
                         No, you're not.
                              (beat)
                         But a presence in your house is not 
                         something to be taken lightly.


               Claire stares back at the house.


               INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT


               Claire walks in and sets down some packages. She opens one 
               and pulls out new toothpaste and... AN ENVELOPE -- the kind 
               your pictures come back in. She absently leafs through them, 
               then freezes. She gapes at one of the shots.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Oh boy...


               INT. UPSTAIRS - NIGHT


               Claire turns off the lights and crouches down. She raises a 
               pair of BINOCULARS.


               POV - BINOCULARS


               Claire rakes the binoculars across the Feur's house... past 
               their car parked in front until she finds A LIGHT ON 
               DOWNSTAIRS.


               The tall, powerfully built Mr. Feur walks into the room and 
               sits by himself at the dining room table, which is set for 
               one. He eats a TV dinner, slowly chewing and staring straight 
               ahead. He sips from a can of beer.


               Just then... A HAND GRABS CLAIRE'S ARM. She lets out a screech 
               and turns to see Norman standing beside her.


                                     NORMAN
                         What are you doing?


               She glances back out the window and sees Mr. Feur standing 
               at the window, paging the curtain. She squats down, pulling 
               Norman with her.


                                     CLAIRE
                              (shrill whisper)
                         Get down! He'll see.


                                     NORMAN
                              (also whispers)
                         What's going on, Claire?


                                    CLAIRE
                         Shhhh.


               She peers over the sill in time to see Mr. Feur turning away 
               from the window. She takes Norman by the hand and leads him 
               downstairs.


               INT. CLAIRE'S KITCHEN - NIGHT


               She leads Norman in.


                                     NORMAN
                              (still whispering)
                         Why am I...
                              (full voice)
                         Why am I whispering in my own house?


               Claire turns.


                                     CLAIRE
                         He killed her.


                                     NORMAN
                         What?


                                     CLAIRE
                         He did. She's in the picture. I went 
                         over to look and she's gone. The 
                         table was set for one.


                                     NORMAN
                         And that means he murdered his wife? 
                         This is getting ridic --


                                     CLAIRE
                         No, no, no, no. The soil on the 
                         shovel, his shovel... that's clay. 
                         It's not from here, believe me, I...
                              (frustrated, she grabs 
                              the photos)
                         All right, look at this.


               She triumphantly thrusts one before him. Norman looks at it.


                                     NORMAN
                         Our house.


                                     CLAIRE
                         No. Look! In the window.


               The ROSES. She points out a HAZY FIGURE in the TURRETED WINDOW 
               of the study. Norman takes it over to the light.


                                     NORMAN
                         It's a flare.


                                     CLAIRE
                         A flare?


                                     NORMAN
                         From the sun. It's a reflection on 
                         the glass.


                                     CLAIRE
                         It's her! I'm telling you. She 
                         whispered and turned on the music. 
                         She's trying to contact me!


                                     NORMAN
                              (making sure he's got 
                              it)
                         It's a ghost.


               Norman shakes his head. He looks again at the picture, does 
               a quick calculation.


                                     NORMAN
                         You took this in the morning, didn't 
                         you?


               She nods slightly.


                                     NORMAN
                         When the sun would be exactly right.


               She's got him.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Then why isn't it in any of the other 
                         pictures?


               She thrusts the batch at him. He peruses the other few shots 
               of the garden.


                                     NORMAN
                         A cloud passed. Or it's a bounce off 
                         the lake. See?


               She looks. He might not be wrong.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Where is she then?


                                     NORMAN
                         She could be out. She could be sick 
                         in bed for all we know.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Okay. Okay. I'll bet there's... Look 
                         at this.


               She leads him out of the room.


               INT. WORK ROOM - NIGHT


               Claire stares at the computer screen triumphantly.


                                     CLAIRE
                         See?


                                     NORMAN
                         What am I looking at?


                                     CLAIRE
                              (indicating completed 
                              solitaire game)
                         I didn't do that.


                                     NORMAN
                         Who did? Mrs. Feur?


                                     CLAIRE
                         Maybe. Point is... not me.


                                     NORMAN
                         Right. And why is she here? If he 
                         killed her, why doesn't she haunt 
                         him?


                                     CLAIRE
                         She was lonely, I talked to her. 
                         Norman, I know how it looks, but --


                                     NORMAN
                         Claire, listen to me. I know you're 
                         under some strain. But there's no 
                         such thing as ghosts. They don't 
                         exist. Our neighbor did not kill his 
                         wife, and I... wait, why aren't you 
                         dressed?


                                     CLAIRE
                         Dressed?


                                     NORMAN
                         Dinner. With Stan and his new girl.


                                     CLAIRE
                         When?


                                     NORMAN
                         What do you mean? Claire, we talked 
                         about it. You didn't want Japanese, 
                         I said, our first date since...


                                     CLAIRE
                              (she seems confused)
                         Oh.


                                     NORMAN
                         ...since Caitlin. You don't remember 
                         this?


                                     CLAIRE
                         Tonight?


                                     NORMAN
                         Yes, tonight. We're going to be --


               She looks at his watch.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Fashionably five minutes late.


               She bolts up the stairs.


               INT. NORMAN'S PICKUP TRUCK - NIGHT


               They drive across the bridge.


                                     NORMAN
                              (concerned, exasperated)
                         When you do this, I swear...


                                     CLAIRE
                              (overlapping)
                         ...Don't get all...


                                     NORMAN
                         ...like it never even happened...


                                     CLAIRE
                         Okay, okay, I'm sure that I just...


               He pulls out a cell phone and punches in a number.


                                     CLAIRE
                         What are you doing?


                                     NORMAN
                         Restaurant. Let them know we're 
                         running late.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Five minutes?


               The phone flashes... "NO SERVICE."


                                     CLAIRE
                         You're not at the center.


                                     NORMAN
                              (overlapping)
                         I know I'm not at the center of the 
                         bridge.


                                     CLAIRE
                         We're going to be fine.


               They near the far side of the bridge. Norman looks down at 
               the cell phone, which now reads, "ROAM." He presses a button.


                                     NORMAN
                         There we go.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Well, that's a relief.


               He shoots her a look.


               INT. RESTAURANT - NIGHT


               A cozy, candlelit Italian place in town. Claire and Norman 
               arrive at the table. STAN rises. The chair next to him is 
               empty. He kisses her cheek.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Hi Stan. Sorry we're late.
                              (too earnest)
                         It was my fault.


               She greets Stan, a friendly looking man in his forties.


                                     STAN
                         We just got here.


               Claire flashes a semi-playful look back at Norman.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Where's the new squeeze?


               A VOICE speaks out from behind her.


                                     VOICE
                         Here I am.


               Claire turns to find A TALL, ELEGANT BRUNETTE standing behind 
               her. The woman's face registers some shock.


                                     STAN
                         I'd like you to meet...


                                     CLAIRE
                         Elena?


                                     ELENA
                         Ohmigod...


               The two women embrace, then beam at each other.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Wow.


                                     ELENA
                         This is...


                                     CLAIRE
                              (to Norman)
                         We know each other.


                                     NORMAN
                         Hope so.


               LATER


               Post meal. Several empty wine bottle decorate the table.


                                     ELENA
                         We had this Finnish conductor, Aki, 
                         Laki, something. He had these 
                         ridiculous bangs. And he'd sweep 
                         them off with his baton every minute 
                         or so, and it drove us insane, 
                         remember?


               Claire nods.


                                     CLAIRE
                         He looked like one of the Monkees.


                                     ELENA
                         Anyway, Claire slept with him...


                                     CLAIRE
                         I didn't sleep with him.


                                     ELENA
                         ...just so she could cut them off.


                                     CLAIRE
                         He was so pissed.


                                     ELENA
                         I came in from my room...


                                     CLAIRE
                              (interjecting)
                         We were suite mates.


                                     ELENA
                         And there's this brilliant conductor 
                         in purple briefs with no bangs cursing 
                         his ass off in Finnish.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Oh God...


               They dissolve into giggles. Norman and Stan smile.


                                     STAN
                         Well...


                                     NORMAN
                              (to Stan)
                         I made an honest woman out of her.


               Elena puts her hand on Claire's.


                                     ELENA
                              (to Stan)
                         You should have heard her play.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Stop.


                                     ELENA
                         We both auditioned for the 
                         Philharmonic. One cello position 
                         open.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Do we have to?


                                     ELENA
                         And I kicked ass. My best stuff. 
                         Then I stood in the hallway and 
                         listened to her audition... and I 
                         cried.


                                     CLAIRE
                         She's making this up.


                                     ELENA
                         I'm not. Couldn't pick up my cello 
                         for weeks.


                                     STAN
                         What happened?


               Elena looks at Claire, then smiles.


                                     ELENA
                         She got it.
                              (beat)
                         Turned it down.


                                     CLAIRE
                         I met a dashing young grad student 
                         after a recital one night...


               Claire puts her arm around Norman.


                                     CLAIRE
                         ...and three months later I was 
                         married.


               He squeezes her hand.


               INT. WORK ROOM - DAY


               Claire walks into the work room with the portable phone to 
               her ear and a cup of Jody's special tea. She sniffs it and 
               makes a face as she turns on the computer. After several 
               rings a GIRL picks up on the other end.


                                     CLAIRE
                              (on phone)
                         Caitlin?


                                     GIRL'S VOICE
                              (overlapping)
                         Can you hang up? I'm trying to make 
                         a call.


               The line goes dead. Claire hits redial and gets... a BUSY 
               SIGNAL. She clicks the phone off as the computer boots up.


               Claire puts the phone down and starts a game of Alice's 
               Solitaire. She turns a card and waits.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Gee, that's tricky. Sure could use 
                         some help.


               She waits, the cursor blinks benignly.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Come on...


               Nothing happens.


               INT. NORMAN AND CLAIRE'S ROOM - DAY


               She walks into the room and notices STEAM wafting from the 
               cracked bathroom door.


               INT. BATHROOM - DAY


               Claire enters the steamy bathroom. The tub is nearly 
               overflowing with water. She squats down to drain the tub.


               She stops, feeling watched, then slowly peers behind her... 
               no one's there. Claire reaches toward the water to yank the 
               plug's chain, then freezes. In the bathwater's still 
               reflection she see:


               A PRETTY YOUNG BLOND standing beside her. Startled, she pops 
               up and slams into the SHOWER HEAD.


               Claire collapses over the side of the tub, her head dipping 
               underwater. A small cloud of red surrounds her. Moments later, 
               an arm wraps around her.


                                                                    CUT TO:


                                     VOICE (O.S.)
                         Claire...


               INT. BATHROOM - DAY


               CLAIRE'S POV - A FACE sharpens into focus hovering above 
               her... Norman.


               INT. BEDROOM - DAY


               Claire sits on the bed. Norman dabs the blood from a tiny 
               cut on the back of her head.


                                     CLAIRE
                         I don't need a shrink.


                                     NORMAN
                              (gently)
                         Harvey says he's amazing.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Norman...


                                     NORMAN
                         What can it hurt to talk to someone?


               She goes to her dresser and gets a PRESCRIPTION BOTTLE and 
               starts to open it. Norman gently places a hand on her arm.


                                     NORMAN
                         Please.


               She shoots him a look...


                                     NORMAN
                         You promised.


               ...and puts the pills down.


                                     NORMAN
                              (gently)
                         Claire, she's been a huge part of 
                         your life for seventeen years. If 
                         you weren't thrown off balance by 
                         this, then something would be wrong.


                                     CLAIRE
                         I never said I wasn't upset. Of course 
                         I'm upset. I miss her terribly. But 
                         I know what I saw and what I heard... 
                         and it wasn't some "symptom" of 
                         something...


                                     NORMAN
                         I never said...


                                     CLAIRE
                         ...and I don't think I'm some lonely, 
                         middle-aged woman cracking up.


               Beat.


                                     NORMAN
                         Are you lonely?


                                     CLAIRE
                         No! And I don't need a psychiatrist!


               INT. DR. DRAYTON'S OFFICE - DAY


               Claire sits in a comfortable looking chair with her purse in 
               her lap, arms crossed.


                                     DR. DRAYTON (O.S.)
                              (a smooth, mellifluous 
                              baritone)
                         Who's idea was it?


                                     CLAIRE
                         Mine. His. We both... thought...


               She trails off. Camera slowly pulls back to reveal, DR. 
               TIMOTHY DRAYTON, a stocky, light skinned black man in his 
               late forties with a kind face and piercing brown eyes.


                                     CLAIRE
                         I didn't want to come.


                                     DR. DRAYTON
                         Then why did you?


                                     CLAIRE
                         Because he was worried about me.


                                     DR. DRAYTON
                         Your husband?


                                     CLAIRE
                         Yes.
                              (beat)
                         I'm sure he's hoping you'll pack me 
                         full of prozac so he can live out 
                         his life in peace.


                                     DR. DRAYTON
                         Do you really think so?


                                     CLAIRE
                         No.


               There's a pause.


                                     DR. DRAYTON
                         Why is he worried?


                                     CLAIRE
                         Because, I don't know, because 
                         sometimes... sometimes I forget 
                         things... and ever since Caitlin 
                         left, ever since my daughter left 
                         for school, there've been... I fainted 
                         and...
                              (beat)
                         Why is this so hard?


               Dr. Drayton takes a little silver bowl full of shiny, red 
               FIREBALLS next to his chair. He proffers it to Claire.


                                     DR. DRAYTON
                         Fireball?


                                     CLAIRE
                         You're joking.


               He shakes his head. She shrugs, then grabs one and pops it 
               into her mouth.


                                     DR. DRAYTON
                         It's hard because I'm a complete 
                         stranger and what we're talking about 
                         is incredibly personal. Besides, the 
                         first time most people come here, a 
                         part of them is wondering if I'm 
                         gonna think they're crazy.


               She sucks on the fireball and slowly nods.


                                     DR. DRAYTON
                         Don't worry, I'm required to have at 
                         least three sessions in order to 
                         commit.


               Her eyes get a little wider.


                                     DR. DRAYTON
                         Now that's a joke.


               She manages an unsteady smile.


                                     DR. DRAYTON
                         I have some training at helping people 
                         through the stressful moments in 
                         life, one of which you may or may 
                         not be experiencing. If you want to 
                         get some stuff off your chest, great. 
                         If not...


               He smiles and shrugs, "no problem." She stares at him for a 
               moment.


                                     CLAIRE
                              (re: fireball)
                         These are good.


                                     DR. DRAYTON
                         Mm-hmm.


               She studies him for a moment.


                                     CLAIRE
                         There's a ghost in my house.


               He nods slightly, as if she's told him, "I have some anxiety." 
               Claire goes on.


                                     CLAIRE
                         She finished my solitaire game and 
                         turned on the radio... she likes 
                         rock and roll. Angry rock and roll.


                                     DR. DRAYTON
                         How do you know it's a she?


                                     CLAIRE
                         I saw her in the water. Beside me. 
                         She was filling the bathtub.


                                     DR. DRAYTON
                         What does she look like?


                                     CLAIRE
                         Pretty. She's a blond.


                                     DR. DRAYTON
                         Do you have any idea who she is?


                                     CLAIRE
                         Um... I'd rather not say... just 
                         yet.


                                     DR. DRAYTON
                         Fine.


                                     CLAIRE
                         What do you think I should do?


               He thinks for a moment, then:


                                     DR. DRAYTON
                         Try to contact her.


               Claire nearly swallows her fireball.


                                     CLAIRE
                         What?


                                     DR. DRAYTON
                         Try to communicate with her somehow.


                                     CLAIRE
                         You think that'll help?


                                     DR. DRAYTON
                         Can't hurt. And I think it's important 
                         you find out what she wants.


               Claire ponders this for a moment, then looks back up at him.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Are you humoring me?


                                     DR. DRAYTON
                         Nope.


               She seems satisfied by his sincerity.


                                     CLAIRE
                         How?


                                     DR. DRAYTON
                         I don't know. My aunt used to use my 
                         uncle's old pajamas and a candle.


               He stands. Claire nods, then stands. She smiles too.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Is this time okay?


               He nods.


               INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT


               Claire walks in carrying a half-empty bottle of wine. She 
               looks over at Jody, who turns off the lights. Jody then 
               strikes a match and lights a LARGE CANDLE. She unveils her 
               carved ANTIQUE OUIJA BOARD.


                                     JODY
                         Sit down here.


                                     CLAIRE
                              (nervous, jokey)
                         Are we hoping the ghost is going to 
                         have to pee?


               Jody turns to her, deadly serious.


                                     JODY
                         Isn't this where you saw her?


               Claire's smile fades. She nods.


                                     JODY
                         Then this is where she'll be.


               They sit cross legged, the board between them.


                                     JODY
                         Place your fingers on the planchette.


                                     CLAIRE
                         The planchette?


                                     JODY
                         This.


               Jody indicates the wooden pointing device. Each woman grasps 
               an edge.


                                     JODY
                              (in a low voice)
                         We wish to commune with the spirit 
                         of Mrs. Feur.
                              (to Claire)
                         What's her first name?


                                     CLAIRE
                         I don't know.


               Jody closes her eyes. Claire follows suit.


                                     JODY
                         I call forth the entity that is 
                         haunting this house.


               They look down at the planchette, which hasn't moved.


                                     JODY
                         Mrs. Feur?


               There's still no movement.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Nothing's happening.


                                     JODY
                         Shhh.


               Jody focuses intently.


                                     JODY
                         Reveal yourself to us.


               A long moment passes. It's starting to seem like a bust.


               Suddenly, THE CANDLE FLARES. Even Jody seems startled.


                                     JODY
                              (to the spirit)
                         Who... who are you?


               At first, nothing happens. Then, slowly, the planchette starts 
               to move across the board.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Are you doing that?


               Jody shakes her head.


                                     CLAIRE
                         I'm not doing that.


               The planchette comes to rest on the letter "M." Moments later, 
               it starts to move again drifting over and stopping on "E."


                                     CLAIRE
                         Oh...


                                     JODY
                         M-E...


               It starts to drift again, moving slowly toward the space 
               between "E" and "F." The planchette stops on "F." Jody removes 
               her fingers from the device.


                                     JODY
                         Mef? What's Mef?


                                     CLAIRE
                         It's initials. F is Feur. It's her.


               Suddenly, the CANDLE starts flickering strangely and THE 
               PLANCHETTE SLIDES JERKILY ON ITS OWN...M-E-F, M-E-F...


                                     JODY
                         Shit...


               Jody stumbles backwards, gasping.


                                     JODY
                         Did you see that?


               Claire leans in.


                                     CLAIRE
                              (to ghost)
                         What happened to you?


               The CANDLE GOES OUT.


                                     JODY
                         Oh God...


               Jody bolts. Claire follows.


               EXT. HALLWAY - NIGHT


               Claire catches up to the completely spooked Jody outside the 
               work room. She holds onto her arm.


                                     JODY
                         I have to go.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Jody, wait.


               Cooper's growling in the work room. They look in.


                                     JODY
                         Claire, this is... this is...


               Claire, transfixed, walks in.


               INT. WORK ROOM - NIGHT


               She stares at the computer screen, which is being filled 
               with letters at an amazing speed.


               MEFMEFMEFMEFMEFMEFMEF...


               She hears the front door swing open.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Jody!


               INT. FOYER - NIGHT


               Claire arrives at the open front door in time to see the 
               Karman-Ghia tearing out of the driveway. She turns and goes 
               back into the house.


               CRASH!


               She edges into...


               INT. NORMAN'S STUDY - NIGHT


               The picture has, once again, tumbled from its spot. She drops 
               to her knees over the picture. This time THE GLASS IS 
               SHATTERED. When she picks out the remaining shards, the 
               newspaper photo slides out. Claire glances at the benign 
               news stories on the back.


               She looks around and spots a piece of glass wedged in a crack 
               in the floor boards by the knot.


               CLAIRE'S POV


               The piece of glass, wedged next to what looks like A COPPER 
               COIN in the crack. It's too big to be a penny.


               She tries to use the piece of glass to pry it free, but 
               recoils. A tiny drop of blood appears on her finger, which 
               she pops into her mouth.


               INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT


               Still sucking on her finger, Claire walks in and begins to 
               clean up the remains of the seance. She bends down to pick 
               up the Ouija board, then stops when she notices that the tub 
               is again full to the brink of overflowing.


                                     CLAIRE
                         What do you want?!


               Claire peers around, frustrated, half waiting for a reply.


               There is only silence. She reaches in to pull the plug, nearly 
               scalding her hand. When she turns for a hand towel she finds 
               a message traced into the steamed-up mirror:


                                        "YOU KNOW"


               She draws in a breath and darts out of the bathroom.


               EXT. LAB BUILDING - NIGHT


               Norman nods to a SECURITY GUARD as he leaves a darkened 
               university building. He sees Claire standing at the foot of 
               the steps.


                                     NORMAN
                         What are you doing out here?


                                     CLAIRE
                         He killed her. I'm not crazy. He 
                         killed her and --


                                     NORMAN
                         This is the Feur thing?


                                     CLAIRE
                         Yes. And he's going to get away with 
                         it.


               Norman's momentarily speechless.


                                     NORMAN
                         How do you know this?


                                     CLAIRE
                         We had a seance.


                                     NORMAN
                         Who did?


                                     CLAIRE
                         Jody and I. And she was there, Norman, 
                         she was. It scared Jody so bad she 
                         had to leave.


                                     NORMAN
                         How did you --


                                     CLAIRE
                         Jody brought a Ouija board and we 
                         summoned her.


               He regards her for a moment.


                                     NORMAN
                         Are you angry at me?


               This stops Claire in her tracks.


                                     CLAIRE
                         What?


                                     NORMAN
                         Maybe you resent how busy I've been.


                                     CLAIRE
                         What are you...? No.


                                     NORMAN
                         You know what I've got at stake with 
                         this paper. You know that. I can't 
                         help but think that you're doing 
                         this now to hurt me, or to sabotage 
                         me somehow.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Sabotage?


                                     NORMAN
                         Ever since the accident I've been 
                         worried that you'd been unhappy, 
                         or...


                                     CLAIRE
                         The accident...?


                                     NORMAN
                         But then you've been so much better...


                                     CLAIRE
                         Norman, this isn't about you. This 
                         is something that's happening to me. 
                         It's not to get even... and it's not 
                         some warped bid for attention. Some 
                         strange things are happening in our 
                         house, whether you believe in them 
                         or not...


                                     NORMAN
                         Sweetheart --


                                     CLAIRE
                         No! Not sweetheart, no. I believe in 
                         what's happening. I don't want to, 
                         but I do. I guess I was foolish enough 
                         to think that would be enough for 
                         you.


               She turns on a heel and walks toward her car.


               EXT. CAMPUS - NIGHT


               Norman catches up to her as a LARGE CROWD is filing out of 
               the concert hall next door.


                                     NORMAN
                         You're overreacting.


               She turns on him.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Don't tell me how to react!


               Norman glances around at the crowded sidewalk.


                                     NORMAN
                         Keep your voice down.


                                     CLAIRE
                         I will NOT.


               Some of the bystanders stop to watch.


                                     CLAIRE
                              (still loud)
                         Maybe you're right. Maybe I'm losing 
                         my mind...


                                     NORMAN
                              (looking around)
                         Claire, please...


               Claire leans in and lowers her voice without diminishing her 
               intensity.


                                     CLAIRE
                         ...But what if I'm not? What if she 
                         died in terror and betrayal and some 
                         part of her can't move on while that's 
                         unresolved. Can't you just...


               Something behind him catches her eye. She trails off.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Wow...


               Claire walks past him toward the parking lot.


                                     NORMAN
                         Claire, please...


               There's a dangerous energy to her walk. People step out of 
               the way.


               EXT. PARKING LOT - NIGHT


               Claire walks past several cars until she sees the one she's 
               after. MR. FEUR steps out from behind the open trunk of his 
               old Buick.


                                     CLAIRE
                              (walking up)
                         You!


               He looks up at her.


                                     CLAIRE
                         You think you're smart, don't you? 
                         You think you got away clean. Well, 
                         I know you killed her. You drowned 
                         her in the bathtub and got rid of 
                         her somewhere and I'm gonna find 
                         her, you murdering sonofabitch.


               Mr. Feur stares, dazed, through the tirade. Norman arrives 
               at her side.


                                     MR. FEUR
                         Who?


                                     CLAIRE
                              (scoffing)
                         Give me that shit. Your wife.


                                     MR. FEUR
                         I didn't kill my wife.


                                     NORMAN
                              (to Mr. Feur)
                         I'm sorry...


                                     CLAIRE
                              (over Norman)
                         Then where is she?


               He stares at both Spencers for a moment. Then calls past 
               them.


                                     MR. FEUR
                         Honey...


               Claire and Norman turn. A BLOND WOMAN backs out of the 
               passenger seat. She turns. IT'S NOT THE FACE CLAIRE HAS SEEN. 
               Claire looks sucker punched.


               INT. DR. DRAYTON'S OFFICE - DAY


               Claire sits back in the chair. She looks drained. A soft 
               rain taps against the windows.


                                     CLAIRE
                         And his face... it seemed so gentle, 
                         and I knew... in that second I knew 
                         that I'd imagined the whole thing.


               Dr. Drayton takes this in. She seems genuinely frightened.


                                     CLAIRE
                         What's happening to me?


                                     DR. DRAYTON
                         Well, that's what we're here for.


               He watches her calmly, some empathy on his face.


                                     DR. DRAYTON
                         Whether you imagined it or not, you 
                         actually saw and heard things that 
                         frightened you... that gave you reason 
                         for concern.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Yes, but...


                                     DR. DRAYTON
                         Your friend saw them.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Isn't there something called group 
                         hysteria?


                                     DR. DRAYTON
                         You think you influenced her?


                                     CLAIRE
                         Maybe. I don't know. I just know 
                         that when all this was happening, I 
                         felt, some part of me felt... alive. 
                         Like somebody needed me. And the 
                         more I reached out to, it, the fuller 
                         it became.


                                     DR. DRAYTON
                         You're saying you willed these events 
                         to happen?


                                     CLAIRE
                         I don't know, I'm very confused right 
                         now.


               Beat.


                                     DR. DRAYTON
                         Did you ever find out what it wanted?


               Claire remembers.


                                     CLAIRE
                         She said, "You know." That I know.


                                     DR. DRAYTON
                         Do you?


                                     CLAIRE
                         No.


                                     DR. DRAYTON
                         What do you think?
                              (beat)
                         Guess.


               Claire ponders this.


                                     CLAIRE
                         I felt... pain. That she'd been hurt 
                         by someone.
                              (beat)
                         This is great. I'm trying to intuit 
                         the emotions of a figment of my --


                                     DR. DRAYTON
                         Have you been hurt?


                                     CLAIRE
                         Me? No. Well, in the accident I was 
                         injured, but...


                                     DR. DRAYTON
                         You were in an accident?


                                     CLAIRE
                         Last year. I drove my car up a tree. 
                         Nothing serious, this...
                              (she indicates her 
                              scar)
                         ...a minor concussion. But the car 
                         looked bad. It could have been bad. 
                         I think it scared the hell out of 
                         Norman.


               Beat.


                                     DR. DRAYTON
                         How's your marriage?


               Claire's eyes widen.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Listen, don't hold back.


               Dr. Drayton smiles kindly.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Well, he's been amazing throughout 
                         this whole thing. Patient and 
                         caring...
                              (beat)
                         I mean, sure, he can be obsessed 
                         with his work, and... it's a very 
                         important time right now with all 
                         that. But, sometimes... I mean with 
                         everybody, right? Sometimes it's 
                         like...


               She trails off.


                                     DR. DRAYTON
                         What?


                                     CLAIRE
                         That he doesn't... see me, or, you 
                         know, that I'm... that's something's 
                         wrong... with me.


                                     DR. DRAYTON
                         That can't feel good.


                                     CLAIRE
                         No, it doesn't... Okay, look, I see 
                         what you're doing here, and that's, 
                         I'm sorry, but that's not it. My 
                         marriage is fine. I've had some kind 
                         of "empty-nest" episode where I saw 
                         some things that weren't there. Let's 
                         deal with that. I'm willing to deal 
                         with that.
                              (beat)
                         I just don't want to go conjuring 
                         problems where none exist.


               Claire finishes her tirade. Dr. Drayton lets her settle for 
               a moment.


                                     DR. DRAYTON
                         Fair enough. But you should know 
                         that I'm far less concerned with 
                         whether things you saw "existed," 
                         than I am with why you saw them.


               She takes in the ramifications of that.


               EXT. PORCH - DAY


               Claire's carrying some cuttings into the house. She hears a 
               knock at the gate, walks over and opens it to discover... 
               Mrs. Feur. The real one.


                                     MRS. FEUR
                         I wanted to apologize.


                                     CLAIRE
                         You do?


                                     MRS. FEUR
                         For scaring you like I did. When I 
                         thought about what that must have 
                         seemed like that day...


                                     CLAIRE
                         And then you weren't there.


                                     MRS. FEUR
                         Right. I'm sorry.


               There's an awkward pause.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Would you like some iced tea?


                                     MRS. FEUR
                         Very much.


               Claire leads her toward the house.


               EXT. PORCH - DAY


               Claire pours Mrs. Feur a glass of iced tea from a pitcher.


               She's small and delicate looking with big, watery eyes.


                                     MRS. FEUR
                         Your house is so beautiful.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Thank you.


                                     MRS. FEUR
                         And these roses. They're much prettier 
                         up close.


               She regards Mrs. Feur for a moment. She seems skittish and 
               shy.


                                     CLAIRE
                         I... there's something I have to ask 
                         you.


               Mrs. Feur waits.


                                     CLAIRE
                         That day... at the fence. You seemed 
                         terrified. I don't think I was 
                         imagining that.


               There's a pause. Mrs. Feur looks down into her lap.


                                     MRS. FEUR
                         No.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Of what? What were you so afraid of?


                                     MRS. FEUR
                         You're going to think I'm crazy or 
                         something.


               A tiny smile.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Not this week.


               She looks away for a moment, then looks back at Claire.


                                     MRS. FEUR
                         Love.


                                     CLAIRE
                         What?


                                     MRS. FEUR
                         Have you ever felt so completely 
                         consumed by a feeling for someone 
                         that you couldn't breathe? That the 
                         time together is so passionate and 
                         consuming that you felt physical 
                         pain when they would leave?


                                     CLAIRE
                         Um... sure.


                                     MRS. FEUR
                         I couldn't catch my breath. That's 
                         not a metaphor, that's... And I 
                         panicked. I never dreamed anyone 
                         would hear me back there...
                              (beat)
                         I tried to leave him. Went to my 
                         mother's in Boston. He brought my 
                         things up and pleaded with me to 
                         come home.


               Claire is mesmerized.


                                     MRS. FEUR
                         You must think I'm pathetic.


                                     CLAIRE
                         No. No, I don't.


                                     MRS. FEUR
                         I'm sorry that I frightened you like 
                         that. But I was so touched by your 
                         concern. I've been lonely here.
                              (beat)
                         Perhaps we could be friends.


               Claire stares at this strange, passionate woman.


                                     CLAIRE
                         I would like that.


               Mrs. Feur smiles at her.


               INT. VOLVO - NIGHT


               Claire pulls up in front of a large NEW YORK HOTEL.


                                     NORMAN
                              (on a cell phone)
                         ...I'm pulling up, Yuri. I'll see 
                         you for dinner.
                              (to Claire)
                         Sure you won't stay?


                                     CLAIRE
                         No, it's fine. I'm fine.


                                     NORMAN
                              (tempting her)
                         Really big bed.


               She smiles and shakes her head. Norman kisses her goodbye, 
               then grabs his bag from the backseat.


                                     NORMAN
                         Do I have everything?


                                     CLAIRE
                         Yep.


                                     NORMAN
                         Call ya later.


               He starts to walk into the hotel.


                                     CLAIRE (O.S.)
                         And you glad you married me?


               He turns. She's standing next to the car.


                                     NORMAN
                         What?


                                     CLAIRE
                         Are you glad? I'm glad.


               Norman walks over to her and cradles her chin with his hand.


                                     NORMAN
                              (softly)
                         You know I am.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Good.
                              (She gazes at him, 
                              then softly)
                         You sat in front... I saw you there...


               Norman takes his cue.


                                     NORMAN
                         You were lost in the music... eyes 
                         closed... your chest heaving...


                                     CLAIRE
                         I felt you... looking through me...


                                     NORMAN
                         We walked all night...


                                     CLAIRE
                         You told me that I was...


               He gently cups her chin in his hand.


                                     NORMAN
                              (overlapping)
                         ...that you were everything I'd ever 
                         dreamed of.


               She smiles, kisses him warmly, then gets in the car.


               EXT. COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY - NIGHT


               Claire stands outside Caitlin's Columbia dorm, watching young 
               lives in motion.


               INT. DORM HALLWAY - NIGHT


               Claire walks past a number of doors. Music booms out of one, 
               shards of a conversation out of another. Finally, she arrives 
               at a door that says "Fur is murder." She smiles to herself 
               and knocks. There's no answer.


                                     DIFFERENT VOICE (O.S.)
                         She's out.


               Claire turns to find an attractive YOUNG MAN standing at her 
               elbow.


                                     YOUNG MAN
                         They're playing at CBGB's down on 
                         Bowery. Probably won't be back for 
                         awhile. You her mom?


                                     CLAIRE
                         Yes. Who was playing?


                                     YOUNG MAN
                         Bitch. Caitlin's band.


                                     CLAIRE
                              (stunned)
                         Caitlin's band?


                                     YOUNG MAN
                         Yeah. They're really good. I would 
                         have gone, but I have a paper.
                              (beat)
                         And I'm not just saying that because 
                         you're a mother.


               Claire nods slightly.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Thank you.


               She walks down the hall.


               INT. CBGB'S - NIGHT


               Claire moves past a huge, BLACK SKINHEAD DOORMAN into an 
               entrance area in the dark throbbing punk club.


               She looks out over the MOB OF SEETHING YOUNG PEOPLE, swaying 
               to a pulsing power-pop band. PUNKS and CLUB KIDS push past 
               her as they move into the throng. She looks up and her face 
               changes.


               CLAIRE'S POV


               A shaggy trio of musicians on the stage, pumping through a 
               jangly, but surprisingly melodic song. Her eyes race across 
               the faces of a BUTCH FEMALE DRUMMER, an emaciated 
               GUITARIST/SINGER and stop on the BASS PLAYER... Caitlin. She 
               rocks back and forth to her own hypnotic bass line, EYES 
               CLOSED, SWAYING TO THE MUSIC.


               Claire is transfixed, her face a mix of pride and sadness.


               The song ends and Caitlin's eyes open. She smiles for a 
               moment, then the smile fades as she spots Claire. Panicked, 
               Claire ducks behind a pillar.


               EXT. CBGB'S - NIGHT


               The last groups of YOUNG PEOPLE file out of the club. A couple 
               of them glance at Claire, who seems very out of place standing 
               on the Bowery late at night.


                                     VOICE (O.S.)
                         Mom?


               She turns to see Caitlin standing before her, a bass guitar 
               case on a strap over her shoulder. There's an awkward pause.


                                     CLAIRE
                         That was very good.


                                     CAITLIN
                         Mom, I'm sorry. I wanted to tell 
                         you. But it never felt right.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Why?


               Caitlin stares at the ground.


                                     CAITLIN
                         I didn't want to bring up memories. 
                         I didn't want to do anything that 
                         might make you regret your choices.


               Claire winces silently.


                                     CAITLIN
                         Besides, Dad would have freaked.


                                     CLAIRE
                         No, he wouldn't.


                                     CAITLIN
                         I think playing in a band called 
                         "Bitch" might put a dent in the whole 
                         "perfect family" thing.


                                     CLAIRE
                         That's not true.


                                     CAITLIN
                         Yes it is. Can we please not do that? 
                         Please? Cause it is.


               Claire doesn't disagree.


                                     CLAIRE
                         He loves you very much. He just --


                                     CAITLIN
                         I know he does.


               Beat. Claire studies her surprisingly strong daughter.


                                     CAITLIN
                         Are you mad at me?


                                     CLAIRE
                         Listen to me. The one thing in life 
                         that I definitely don't regret... is 
                         the choice I made to be your mother.


               They hug. For a moment, Claire's got her little girl back.


               Her eyes well up.


                                     CLAIRE
                         I miss you.


                                     CAITLIN
                         So much.


                                     CLAIRE
                              (laughing)
                         It got so bad your father almost had 
                         to put me away.


                                     CAITLIN
                         What do you mean?


                                     CLAIRE
                         I started seeing things.


                                     CAITLIN
                         A ghost?


               Beat. Claire stares at her daughter.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Did you?


                                     CAITLIN
                         No. But once I heard...


                                     CLAIRE
                         What?


                                     CAITLIN
                         Someone crying. A girl.
                              (beat)
                         I thought I was crazy.


                                     CLAIRE
                              (quietly)
                         Then we both are.


               Caitlin nods.


               INT. PRESIDENT'S HOUSE - NIGHT


               ...a large cocktail party. The house is crowded with 
               PROFESSORS, ADMINISTRATORS, and their SPOUSES. PRESIDENT 
               TEMPLETON, a frosty-haired, avuncular chap, greets them with 
               his WIFE, a sharp looking woman in her late fifties.


                                     TEMPLETON
                         There they are.


                                     NORMAN
                         You remember my wife, Claire.


                                     MRS. TEMPLETON
                              (shaking hands)
                         Of course. You must be so proud.


                                     CLAIRE
                         I am.


                                     MRS. TEMPLETON
                              (to Norman)
                         Everyone's very anxious to shake 
                         hands with our newest academic 
                         celebrity.


               She takes their coats. Dean Templeton leads them in.


                                     TEMPLETON
                         Must've been some paper. Your father 
                         would be very proud.


               This seems to strike a nerve.


                                     NORMAN
                         Uh-huh.


               Claire notices this and squeezes his hand. Templeton leads 
               Norman into a large living room which is filled with 
               colleagues. Several of them turn and begin clapping. Others 
               follow suit.


               EXT. PATIO - NIGHT


               Claire stands at a small bar.


                                     CLAIRE
                              (to bartender)
                         White wine please.


               She scans the party and spots the Feurs deep in some intimate 
               conversation with each other. She's speaking about something 
               astonishing. He's rapt. Claire locates Norman in a corner 
               listening as some AGED ALUMNUS holds forth. He sees her and 
               mouths, "I'm sorry." He points to his watch and flashes five 
               fingers. She smiles and nods.


                                     VOICE (O.S.)
                         Guess I'm not much of a medium.


               She turns to see Jody.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Jody...


               They hug.


                                     JODY
                         Are you okay?


                                     CLAIRE
                         I think so


                                     JODY
                         I'm sorry for leaving, but I mean, 
                         Jesus, Claire...


                                     CLAIRE
                         It's alright.


                                     JODY
                         I mess around with this stuff, but I 
                         never thought anything would happen.


               Claire looks uncomfortable.


                                     JODY
                         Does Norman know?


                                     CLAIRE
                         Jody, she's alive.


                                     JODY
                         What?


                                     CLAIRE
                         Mrs. Feur. She's alive. I met her. 
                         She's really sweet.


                                     JODY
                         Then what was it?


                                     CLAIRE
                         Nothing. It wasn't anything. I've 
                         been on edge lately. Maybe since the 
                         accident. And I'd prefer, I really 
                         would, to just --


                                     JODY
                         Something was there. You saw it.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Did I?


                                     JODY
                         Yes. Now I talked to Sela and there's 
                         a guy, this Pakistani guy down in 
                         Hartford...


                                     CLAIRE
                         Hartford?


                                     JODY
                         And he's the real thing. Specializes 
                         in cases like this, like yours.


                                     CLAIRE
                         No. Jody, listen to me. You have to 
                         listen to me. This is not something 
                         that I can do right now. Whatever it 
                         was, it's gone. I need it to be gone 
                         now.


                                     JODY
                         But Claire --


                                     CLAIRE
                         Please.


               Jody recognizes her fragility.


                                     JODY
                         Okay. Okay.


                                     CLAIRE
                         I've got to find a bathroom. I'll 
                         call you.


               Jody nods as Claire walks off.


               INT. POWDER ROOM - NIGHT


               Claire stands in the spacious powder room, checking her makeup 
               in the mirror. Mrs. Templeton enters from the bathroom.


                                     MRS. TEMPLETON
                         How're you holding up?


                                     CLAIRE
                         Just fine. It's a lovely party.


               The two women fix their makeup side-by-side in the mirror.


                                     MRS. TEMPLETON
                         Norman was telling me the dream house 
                         is finally finished.


                                     CLAIRE
                              (nodding)
                         Almost.


                                     MRS. TEMPLETON
                         Wonderful. It's good to see you two 
                         doing so well.


               Claire looks confused.


                                     CLAIRE
                         I'm sorry?


                                     MRS. TEMPLETON
                         I know how hard it can be sometimes.


               Claire turns to her.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Uh-huh. What can be?


                                     MRS. TEMPLETON
                         Well, I don't think I've seen you 
                         since the reception at Dean Ackerman's 
                         last year.


               Claire's still in the dark.


                                     MRS. TEMPLETON
                         For the Dupont Chair.
                              (off Claire's look)
                         I swear. I'm becoming the nosy old 
                         lady I used to run from at Amherst.


                                     CLAIRE
                         No. I'm just not sure what you mean.


                                     MRS. TEMPLETON
                         There was just... some tension. You 
                         were upset. I remember being 
                         concerned.


                                     CLAIRE
                         At the party.


                                     MRS. TEMPLETON
                         Toward the end. You remember?


                                     CLAIRE
                              (recovering)
                         Ohhh yes. No, no. Just a little, you 
                         know... We're fine.


                                     MRS. TEMPLETON
                         Well, I'm glad. Pardon my 
                         intrusiveness, but we do have to 
                         stick together you know.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Who's that?


                                     MRS. TEMPLETON
                         The wives.


               Beat.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Right.


               Mrs. Templeton leaves. Claire looks into the mirror.


                                     CLAIRE (V.O.)
                         What was it about?


               EXT. TEMPLETON'S HOUSE - NIGHT


               Claire and Norman walk toward the car.


                                     NORMAN
                         You don't remember?


                                     CLAIRE
                         When she said it, there was something 
                         familiar... but no.


               He looks at her for a moment.


                                     NORMAN
                         You dropped a glass.


                                     CLAIRE
                         I...


                                     NORMAN
                         A cheap wine glass from the caterers. 
                         You started crying. I tried to comfort 
                         you...


                                     CLAIRE
                              (something's triggered)
                         In the living room...


                                     NORMAN
                         You shoved me away and ran out to 
                         the patio. I took you home.


                                     CLAIRE
                         But why? I can't understand how I 
                         could just completely --


                                     NORMAN
                         It was maybe a week after the 
                         accident. We were moving. It was a 
                         hard time.


                                     CLAIRE
                         But I don't remember.


                                     NORMAN
                         Sweetheart, it was over a year ago.


                                     CLAIRE
                         What's wrong with me?


               He stops, takes her shoulders gently.


                                     NORMAN
                              (reassuring)
                         Nothing. Nothing at all. It's been a 
                         hard year. But you're better now. 
                         And things are really looking up for 
                         us. So let's try to enjoy that.
                              (gently)
                         Please?


               She thinks for a beat.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Yes. Yes. That's what I want.


               She takes his hand and kisses it.


               EXT. CLAIRE'S HOUSE - DAY


               Claire walks up to the door. When she touches the knob she 
               hears... the WHISPERING. She opens the door and moves into:


               INT. FOYER - DAY


               The same intense whispered exchange. She glances into the 
               mirror and sees... SHAPES MOVING, BODIES, A FLASH OF SILVER.


               She turns the corner and again... NO ONE'S THERE.


               INT. NORMAN'S STUDY - DAY


               She walks in and stands before:


               The repaired photograph of herself and Norman... at the party 
               for the DUPONT CHAIR.


               She takes it from the wall, stares at it for a moment, then 
               SMASHES IT ON THE EDGE OF THE DESK. She extricates the picture 
               from the broken glass. The caption reads:


               "Dr. Norman Spencer being awarded the distinguished Dupont 
               Chair in Genetics by Dean of Sciences Torvald Ackerman."


               She stares at the picture for a moment, then flips it over 
               and scans the stories on the back. One tells of a hotly 
               contested city council race, another contains details of a 
               large alumni donation to the university.


               She notices the bottom corner of another story she hadn't 
               noticed before. It's only a small portion of one column, but 
               it seems to detail the search for A MISSING GIRL.


               INT. WORK ROOM - DAY


               Claire, online, logs onto a missing persons website. She 
               narrows her search to NEW ENGLAND. A screen pops up with a 
               list of names. She scrolls down the list until she finds... 
               FRANK, MADISON ELIZABETH.


                                     CLAIRE
                         M-E-F...


               Claire double clicks on it, then waits breathlessly as a 
               blurry cyber photo fills the screen. Slowly, higher resolution 
               moves down the image.


               IT'S THE GHOST.


               Under the photo is the legend:


                             "DISAPPEARED - OCTOBER 22, 1998"


               Claire stares at the familiar face, then shakily hits PRINT.


               LATER


               Claire is staring down at the girl's face on the print out.


                                     VOICE
                              (on phone)
                         ...she was practically a townie. 
                         Grew up in Bradford.


                                     CLAIRE
                         And she was never found?


                                     VOICE
                              (on phone)
                         Nah. She was a live wire. Had this 
                         old Mustang Fastback. It's gone too. 
                         Most of her friends think she's 
                         tooling around Mexico somewhere. 
                         Police downgraded her to a runaway.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Thank you, Mr...


               She glances at the byline on the back of the newspaper photo.


               INSERT


               "by Neil McCann"


                                     CLAIRE
                         ...McCann.


               She hangs up.


               INT. NORMAN'S STUDY - NIGHT


               Norman is unpacking NOTES and CHEMICALS from his LEATHER 
               BAG.


               Claire walks in.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Remember this?


               She places the printout on his desk. He takes a long look at 
               it.


                                     NORMAN
                         Is this that girl from last year?


               Claire nods.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Did you know her?


               Norman looks again.


                                     NORMAN
                         I may have seen her on campus.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Not personally.


                                     NORMAN
                         No.
                              (beat)
                         I'm afraid to ask what this is about.


                                     CLAIRE
                              (solemnly)
                         It's her. This is the woman who I've 
                         seen.


                                     NORMAN
                         The...


                                     CLAIRE
                         Yes. The ghost.


               Norman leaves the hung frame and walks over to a window.


                                     CLAIRE
                         I thought it was Mrs. Feur, but it's 
                         not...


                                     NORMAN
                              (quietly overlapping)
                         Stop...


                                     CLAIRE
                         ...I'm positive this time...


                                     NORMAN
                              (overlapping)
                         ...Please stop...


                                     CLAIRE
                         It's Madison Fra --


                                     NORMAN
                         STOP IT!


               Claire falls silent, Norman turns from the window.


                                     NORMAN
                              (calmly)
                         Claire, I've tried to be there. I 
                         know you're going through something 
                         that I can't understand... but it's 
                         enough.


               Claire looks down.


                                     NORMAN
                         Do you want to go see someone? 
                         Together? Should we call Dr. Drayton?


               She shakes her head.


                                     NORMAN
                         Well then what? Claire, what? Tell 
                         me what I can do.


               Long pause. Claire looks up, then timidly holds out the 
               printout.


                                     CLAIRE
                         It's her.


               Norman's jaw tightens.


                                     CLAIRE
                         I don't want to make you angry. But 
                         she's here. And I don't know why...


               He silently walks out of the room. Claire stares down at the 
               face in the photo.


               EXT. MADISON FRANK'S HOUSE - DAY


               Claire parks in front of a small, clapboard house in a 
               neighborhood that is decidedly less upscale than her own. 
               She gets out and tentatively walks up to the tiny porch.


               EXT. PORCH - DAY


               Claire rings the bell. A DRAWN LOOKING WOMAN in her early 
               fifties answers the door.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Mrs. Frank?


                                     MRS. FRANK
                         Yeah.


                                     CLAIRE
                         I'd like to talk to you about Madison.


                                     MRS. FRANK
                         You know where she is?


                                     CLAIRE
                         No, I don't.


                                     MRS. FRANK
                         Please leave me alone.


               She starts to close the door. Claire leans forward.


                                     CLAIRE
                         She's my friend.


               The woman stops.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Was. We were... acquainted. I've 
                         been away for awhile. When I came 
                         back...


               She studies Claire.


                                     MRS. FRANK
                         What's your name?


                                     CLAIRE
                         Claire.


                                     MRS. FRANK
                         She never mentioned you.


               Claire doesn't know what to say to this.


                                     MRS. FRANK
                         Then again, she didn't say much about 
                         her college friends.


               She gives Claire the once over.


                                     MRS. FRANK
                         I'm watchin' my shows.


               She motions Claire in.


               INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY


               Claire sits on a couch in the cramped living room. Mrs. Frank 
               serves up a mug of coffee. A soap plays silently on an old 
               19" RCA.


                                     MRS. FRANK
                         Just plain old coffee. None of that 
                         mocha nonsense.


                                     CLAIRE
                         It's fine.


               She sizes Claire up.


                                     MRS. FRANK
                         You look a little old for a student.


                                     CLAIRE
                         I'm not. We... we met at a party.


                                     MRS. FRANK
                         Sounds about right. Never understood 
                         how a girl that wild got all A's. 
                         Sure didn't get it from me. They 
                         wanted to put her in a special school 
                         for the gifted when she was young. 
                         Maddie wouldn't hear about it.


                                     CLAIRE
                         She never mentioned her father.


                                     MRS. FRANK
                         Well she wouldn't. He left when she 
                         was twelve. Never spoke about him 
                         after that.


               There's a silence. Mrs. Frank stares at the TV.


                                     MRS. FRANK
                         Don't need the sound. You can pretty 
                         much tell what's happening by the 
                         faces. Turn it up sometimes, though. 
                         Feels like someone's here.


               Claire doesn't know what to say. Mrs. Frank turns to her.


                                     MRS. FRANK
                         Why are you here?


                                     CLAIRE
                         I don't know.


                                     MRS. FRANK
                         It's like that. Doesn't seem real. 
                         No note. Nothing.
                              (beat)
                         Cops say she'll be back. I just wanna 
                         know what happened.


               Claire stares at this tough, tragic woman.


                                     MRS. FRANK
                         Wanna see her room? Claire nods.


               INT. MADISON'S ROOM - DAY


               Claire enters the room. Her face freezes.


               ANGLE


               SEVERAL POSTERS FOR ALTERNATIVE AND METAL BANDS, side by 
               side with ACADEMIC PLAQUES AND AWARDS.


                                     MRS. FRANK
                         Full scholarships. Princeton too. 
                         She wanted to stay close.


                                     CLAIRE
                         You must have been very proud.


               She nods. Claire moves along looking at pictures. Some with 
               different men, others with rough looking friends. Claire 
               stops at a picture tucked into a mirror.


               INSERT


               Madison singing at a recital of some kind. She's lovely, 
               with striking GREEN EYES. Around her neck is a distinctive 
               SILVER NECKLACE, with a perfectly wrought, SILVER ROSEBUD.


                                     MRS. FRANK
                         Such a pretty voice. Surprised she 
                         didn't major in music.
                              (beat)
                         That's the last picture.


               A phone rings in the hallway.


                                     MRS. FRANK
                         S'cuse me.


               Claire's eye is pulled past the picture into the mirror, the 
               reflection of something pinned to the edge of a bulletin 
               board. She turns and moves over to:


               A SHORT BLOND BRAID. She reaches out to touch it. Claire 
               hears footsteps. Mrs. Frank leans back into the room.


                                     MRS. FRANK
                         They're calling me in to work.


                                     CLAIRE
                         I should be going anyway.


               EXT. PORCH - DAY


               Mrs. Frank walks Claire out.


                                     MRS. FRANK
                         Y'hear anything you'll let me know?


                                     CLAIRE
                         Of course.


               Claire walks to her car. She turns and calls out:


                                     CLAIRE
                         What was her major?


                                     MRS. FRANK
                         Biology. She wanted to be a doctor.


               Claire stands, frozen, as Mrs. Frank disappears into the 
               little house.


               INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT


               Claire shuts the blinds, then places the large candle on the 
               floor, then places the MISSING GIRL PRINTOUT at the base of 
               the candle. On top if it, she places THE BRAID. Then Claire 
               lights the candle, puts the braid on the picture, and hunches 
               over it, whispering intensely:


                                     CLAIRE
                         I need to know the truth.


               She waits a beat. Nothing.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Madison, please... help me.


               Nothing happens. She looks around at the seance props. She 
               stands and places her hands on the sink. She glances at 
               herself in the mirror.


                                     CLAIRE
                         What am I doing?


               Suddenly, her head droops over, she shudders softly. When 
               she looks back into the mirror, her eyes are a DEEP GREEN.


               She hears the front door open downstairs.


                                     NORMAN (O.S.)
                         Hello... Anybody home?!


               A strange smile creeps across her face.


               INT. CLAIRE'S HOUSE - NIGHT


               POV - Gliding down the stairs and into...


               INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT


               The refrigerator door is open. Norman is leaning over. Only 
               his ass protrudes.


               REVERSE


               Norman closes the refrigerator door and sees Claire standing 
               before him, stripped down to a skirt and slip top. There's a 
               different physicality to her movements... a different rhythm 
               to her speech.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Hello, Dr. Spencer.


               Norman smiles.


                                     NORMAN
                         Mrs. Spencer.


               She shakes her head.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Forbidden fruit...


               She takes the apple...


                                     CLAIRE
                         Got a problem with that...


               ...then takes a ravenous bite and walks out of the room.


               INT. NORMAN'S STUDY - DAY


               Norman finds Claire seated on his desk, her legs spread.


                                     NORMAN
                         I take it your not mad at me.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Wouldn't go that far.


               She grabs his belt and pulls him into her, then holds the 
               apple to his mouth. Norman tentatively takes a bite. She 
               mashes it slowly into his mouth until he recoils slightly.


                                     NORMAN
                              (mouth full)
                         Okay...


               When he chews the huge bite, a glistening drop of juice runs 
               down his chin. Claire leans forward and licks it off.


                                     NORMAN
                         What's gotten into you?


               She just smiles mischievously, then starts kissing him. It 
               looks like she's eating his lips. Norman's getting hot. She 
               bites down on a lip.


                                     NORMAN
                         Ow!


                                     CLAIRE
                         What's the matter?


                                     NORMAN
                         It's too rough.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Since when?


               Something about this response frightens him. Claire yanks 
               Norman's belt open.


               He steps back, tripping over his castered desk chair. She's


               on top of him in a flash, sitting astride him. She speaks in 
               a forceful, sexy whisper.


                                     NORMAN
                         I don't like this, this...


                                     CLAIRE
                              (pinning his hands 
                              above his head)
                         Why don't you shut up and fuck me, 
                         Professor.


               She grinds up against him. Suddenly, something pulls her eye 
               to the hallway.


               POV - The COAT RACK MIRROR, now from inside the study. In 
               it's reflection: ANOTHER CLAIRE, shorter hair, stunned 
               expression. Where she's standing... it's DAYTIME.


               Claire leans over him until they're nose-to-nose.


                                     CLAIRE
                              (tense whisper)
                         I think she's starting to suspect 
                         something.


                                     NORMAN
                              (through clenched 
                              teeth)
                         Who?


                                     CLAIRE
                              (leaning down)
                         Your wife...


                                     NORMAN
                         STOP IT!


               Norman shoves her off of him onto the floor. He stands, 
               breathless.


                                     NORMAN
                         What the hell are you doing?!


               In a moment, it's Claire again, stunned and trembling against 
               the wall.


                                     CLAIRE
                              (to herself, 
                              remembering)
                         "You know..."


                                     NORMAN
                              (rattled)
                         What?


               She looks up.


                                     CLAIRE
                         I was there.


                                     NORMAN
                         Claire --


                                     CLAIRE
                              (flooding back to her)
                         I came to work in the garden and I 
                         saw you with her... in my house.


                                     NORMAN
                         Oh God...


                                     CLAIRE
                         I snuck back to my car, trying to 
                         convince myself it never happened. 
                         And when I woke up in the hospital... 
                         somehow it hadn't. Until now.


               He just stares at her, his face anguished.


                                     NORMAN
                         It was last year. We were having 
                         troubles.


                                     CLAIRE
                         So you fucked a student?!


                                     NORMAN
                              (reaching for her)
                         That's not what I'm sayi --


                                     CLAIRE
                              (pulling back)
                         DON'T touch me. Just get away from 
                         me. Go!


               He's frozen.


                                     CLAIRE
                         I SAID GET OUT!


               Norman doesn't move. He's never seen her like this.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Fine...


               She bolts toward the living room. He follows her.


               INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT


               She grabs her coat.


                                     NORMAN
                              (welling up)
                         Claire, please don't...


                                     CLAIRE
                         What did you think I would do? Jesus 
                         Christ! I gave up my life and my 
                         music...


                                     NORMAN
                         I never asked you to quit!


                                     CLAIRE
                         ...Oh BULLSHIT. You had to topple 
                         perfect Daddy and that meant perfect 
                         wife, perfect family...


               He follows her as she searches for her purse and keys.


                                     NORMAN
                         THAT'S NOT TRUE! You wanted to quit! 
                         And then when you did, you hated me 
                         for it... so you gave it all to her.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Who?


                                     NORMAN
                         To Caitlin!!


               She wheels on him with fury.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Leave her out of this!


                                     NORMAN
                         And then out of nowhere, some bright 
                         young woman found me attractive...


                                     CLAIRE
                         Stop...


                                     NORMAN
                         ...would do anything just to be around 
                         me. And I slipped. God help me, I 
                         slipped.


                                     CLAIRE
                         I'm not going to listen to this.


               Claire goes to leave, Norman blocks her path.


                                     NORMAN
                         I tried to break it off!


                                     CLAIRE
                         You should have tried harder.


                                     NORMAN
                         Claire...


                                     CLAIRE
                              (seething)
                         Get out of my way.


               She brushes past him.


               INT. FOYER - NIGHT


               He catches up, beside himself.


                                     NORMAN
                         PLEASE DON'T GO!


               Claire's nearly disarmed by this rare emotional outburst. 
               She turns at the door and looks back.


                                     CLAIRE
                         You made it impossible for me to be 
                         someone you could be in love with.


               She leaves.


               INT. LIVING ROOM - MORNING


               Norman, rumpled and unshaven, is passed out on the couch, a 
               half empty whiskey bottle beside him on the coffee table. He 
               awakens to find Claire sitting across from him.


                                     CLAIRE
                         I want you to answer one question.


               He waits.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Did you have anything to do with her 
                         disappearance?


               Beat.


                                     NORMAN
                         Yes.


               Claire goes pale.


                                     NORMAN
                         She was damaged and unstable. The 
                         more I tried to distance myself, the 
                         more desperate she became. Finally, 
                         she showed up at the new house...


                                     CLAIRE
                         How did she know where it was?


               He stares off. The reality sinks in for Claire.


                                     CLAIRE
                              (softly)
                         Our dream house.


               Norman can hardly look at her.


                                     NORMAN
                         She was out of control. She said she 
                         was going to kill herself... or you. 
                         I never thought she'd go through 
                         with any of it, but then she was 
                         gone...


               He trails off.


                                     CLAIRE
                         She did it.


                                     NORMAN
                         We don't know that for sure.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Of course she did, Norman. What else 
                         could it be?


               The enormity of this hits Norman. His head drops into his 
               hands.


                                     NORMAN
                         Oh God, what have I done? How could 
                         I have let this into our lives?


               He looks up at her, teary.


                                     CLAIRE
                         I don't know.


               She gets up and walks out of the room.


               EXT. JODY'S STUDIO - DAY


               An old industrial loft filled with finished and half-finished 
               oil paintings. Jody brings Claire some tea.


                                     CLAIRE
                         ...and everything I have, everything 
                         I thought my life was... Christ when 
                         I think of all the lies...


               Jody looks down.


                                     CLAIRE
                         What?
                              (beat)
                         Jody what?


               Jody looks up, tears in her eyes.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Oh God... you knew.


                                     JODY
                         I was down in Adamant...


                                     CLAIRE
                         Adamant?


                                     JODY
                         Artsy little village down seven. 
                         There's a guy there who sells my 
                         work. I had just dropped off some 
                         paintings and as I got in my car... 
                         I saw Norman sitting at this little 
                         cafe.


               Claire waits for her to continue.


                                     JODY
                         I started to walk over... but he 
                         wasn't alone. A blond. I only caught 
                         a glimpse. She was young.
                              (beat)
                         I should have said something right 
                         away. But I didn't.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Why?


                                     JODY
                         Partly because I didn't want to hurt 
                         you... but partly... partly because 
                         I was relieved.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Relieved?


                                     JODY
                         I had just been left by Richard. I 
                         was bitter and miserable and for 
                         some fucked up reason, it made me 
                         feel better that your life wasn't as 
                         perfect as it seemed.


               Claire nods.


                                     JODY
                         By the time I finally got up the 
                         nerve to tell you, Stan called from 
                         the hospital and it was too late.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Too late? Jody, it was an accident.


                                     JODY
                         Alone? On a two lane road? With a 
                         ton of Valium in your system?


               Claire walks over to a window.


                                     JODY
                         I got there first. Stan covered up 
                         the pills and I had it out with 
                         Norman. He seemed desperate not to 
                         lose you. He promised to handle it. 
                         And we all let it drop away.


                                     CLAIRE
                         All of us.


               Beat.


                                     JODY
                         I'm a terrible friend.


                                     CLAIRE
                         No.


               Claire turns.


                                     CLAIRE
                         How could I expect you to tell me 
                         something that I wouldn't even tell 
                         myself?


                                     JODY
                         What are you going to do?


                                     CLAIRE
                         I don't know.


                                     JODY
                         If she was dangerous before --


                                     CLAIRE
                         She could have hurt me if she wanted 
                         to.


                                     JODY
                         You don't know that.
                              (beat)
                         If it's your belief that gives her 
                         form, then you've got to shut her 
                         out. Somehow you have to break the 
                         connection.


                                     CLAIRE
                         No. She wanted me to know the truth. 
                         Now that I do... I think she's at 
                         peace.


               Jody isn't as sure.


               INT. KITCHEN - DAY


               Claire walks in. She notices the clock on the range is dark.


               She flips on a light. Nothing happens. Worried, she heads 
               upstairs.


               INT. NORMAN AND CLAIRE'S ROOM - MORNING


               Claire enters. The bed is empty. The shower is running in 
               the bathroom.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Norman?


               INT. BATHROOM - MORNING


               ANGLE - CLAIRE... her face a mask of terror.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Oh God...


               CLAIRE'S POV


               The BATHTUB, with the shower curtain drawn around it, the 
               water blasting. Norman's limp hand pokes through the curtain. 
               AN ELECTRIC CORD leads from the mirror socket into the tub.


               Claire races over and rips the plug from the wall. She tears 
               the SHOWER CURTAIN AWAY to find A BLUISH NORMAN lying, 
               unconscious in the tub.


                                     CLAIRE
                         No, no. Please no...


               She hugs her face to his chest until she picks up a heartbeat.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Norman!! Wake up! Please!


               Claire shakes him to no effect.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Oh God... NORMAN!


               She slaps him on the face... once, then twice. He suddenly 
               sucks in a gulp of air, begins struggling and dazedly returns 
               to life.


                                     CLAIRE
                         It's me... it's me...


               Sobbing, she shuts off the squeaky faucets and struggles to 
               pull him upright. She discovered HER BLOWDRYER in the tub 
               and hurls it across the room.


               INT. BEDROOM - DAY


               Claire sits beside Norman on the bed as two E.M.T.'s, an OLD 
               GUY and a HEAVY WOMAN pack up. Stan's on the phone, Jody off 
               to one side.


                                     HEAVY WOMAN
                         Vitals are good. I'd take it easy 
                         for a couple of days.


                                     NORMAN
                         Thanks.


               The E.M.T.'s leave as Stan hangs up.


                                     STAN
                         They'll take you for a CAT scan 
                         tomorrow if you're feeling dizzy at 
                         all.


                                     NORMAN
                         That won't be necessary.


               He glances at Claire as he walks Stan out.


                                     NORMAN
                         Not unless there's a miracle drug 
                         for clumsiness.


               They leave.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Jody, she tried to kill him.


                                     JODY
                         I know.


                                     CLAIRE
                         I can't believe this is happening.


                                     JODY
                         We need help. Please let me call the 
                         medium.


                                     CLAIRE
                         That could take days. I need to do 
                         something now. Don't you see? She 
                         wants us dead.


               Jody thinks for a moment.


                                     JODY
                         Alight, alright. Stay calm. You opened 
                         this door. There's got to be a way 
                         that you can close it.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Like what?


                                     JODY
                         I have an idea. But, I mean, I'm 
                         just making this up...


                                     CLAIRE
                         What is it?


                                                                    CUT TO:


               MADISON'S SMILING FACE


               EXT. DOCK - DAY


               Claire's staring down at the PRINTOUT. She's kneeling at the 
               edge of the dock. From her pocket she produces THE BLOND 
               BRAID and a piece of TWINE. She wraps the braid up in the 
               printout with a rock and secures it with the twine.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Sorry. Better or worse, he's mine.


               She tosses the little parcel into the dark water. Bubbles 
               stream up. In the bubbles, Claire sees... THE PALE SHAPE, 
               which slowly becomes THE DROWNED GIRL, staring up from beneath 
               the dark water.


               Claire wants to pull away, but she's transfixed. Madison 
               reaches up toward the surface. As the bubble diminish, she 
               seems to be FADING AWAY. When she's gone, Claire reaches out 
               toward the water. When her finger touches the surface...


               WHOOSH! She's sucked down into the water.


               INT. UPSTAIRS SITTING ROOM - DAY


               Norman glances out of the window in time to see a splash off 
               the dock. He races out of the room.


               EXT. UNDERWATER - DAY


               Claire struggles furiously as the unseen attacker drags her 
               deeper into the murky depths.


               EXT. DOCK - DAY


               Norman sprints toward the dock.


               EXT. UNDERWATER - DAY


               As he oxygen begins to run out, Claire screams desperately 
               as her hand plunges into the muddy bottom.


               Suddenly, she's released. She yanks her hand free, the silt 
               swirls revealing... a COPPER COLORED GLINT in the mud.


               NORMAN'S HAND grasps Claire's ankle and pulls her upwards.


               EXT. DOCK - DAY


               Norman helps Claire, coughing, onto the dock. They hold each 
               other.


                                     NORMAN
                         Are you okay?


               She nods, catching her breath.


                                     NORMAN
                         We have to get out of here.


                                     CLAIRE
                         It's alright.


                                     NORMAN
                         Can't you see, she's trying to kill 
                         us.


                                     CLAIRE
                         She's gone.


                                     NORMAN
                         What?


                                     CLAIRE
                         She can't be here without me.


                                     NORMAN
                         How can you be sure?


                                     CLAIRE
                         I don't know, but I am. She was there 
                         and then she was gone. I felt it.


                                     NORMAN
                         Claire...


               She stares into the still water.


                                     CLAIRE
                         It's over.


               INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT


               Claire in bed with a blanket wrapped around her. Norman walks 
               in with some steaming mulled cider. He stokes the blazing 
               fire. He sits on the edge of the bed.


                                     NORMAN
                         I know it's going to take awhile 
                         before things are back... until 
                         they're better than before. But you've 
                         given us a chance to make a fresh 
                         start. And I'm going to spend the 
                         rest of my life making you glad that 
                         you did.


               The gaze at each other. Tentatively, she places a hand on 
               his.


               EXT. GARDEN - DAY


               Claire, dressed in a warm sweater, finishes wrapping her 
               rosebushes for the winter. She picks up a basket of clipped 
               flowers and heads inside.


               EXT. PORCH - DAY


               She turns the doorknob and listens for the whispering. All 
               is quiet.


               INT. FOYER - DAY


               She looks into the mirror and sees only the study and the 
               lake behind it.


               INT. NORMAN'S STUDY - DAY


               Claire places the roses in a vase on Norman's desk, and in 
               doing so, accidentally knocks it over.


               With a towel she mops up the water which has dripped onto 
               the wooden floor. The stream has flowed over to the knot and 
               dripped into the crack. Claire stares down at THE STRANGE 
               COPPER COIN.


               She grabs a letter opener from Norman's desk and pries the 
               coin out. It's actually a SMALL BRASS KEY, the head of which 
               is THREE INTERLOCKING CIRCLES. She stares at it for a moment, 
               then places it in her pocket.


               EXT. SAILBOAT - DUSK


               Claire stands toward the bow watching the sunset. The leaves 
               on the surrounding hills are stunning. Norman appears beside 
               her.


                                     NORMAN
                         Last sail of the year.


               She gazes out.


                                     CLAIRE
                         The leaves...


                                     NORMAN
                         Incredible. We should take a drive 
                         before they're gone. Spend the night 
                         at some cozy little bed and breakfast.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Look for antiques...


                                     NORMAN
                         Yep. There's some great places nearby.


                                     CLAIRE
                              (a reflex)
                         Adamant.


                                     NORMAN
                         What?


                                     CLAIRE
                         Little village down seven. Supposed 
                         to be charming.


                                     NORMAN
                         Huh.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Do you know it?


                                     NORMAN
                         Don't think so.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Maybe we can stop there for lunch.


               He wraps an arm around her.


                                     NORMAN
                         Whatever you'd like.


               She leans against him, staring out.


               EXT. DRIVEWAY - DAY


               Jody and Claire return from a walk. Norman has the boat on 
               the trailer and is securing a tarp over it. They stop under 
               a tree.


                                     CLAIRE
                         But he acted like he'd never heard 
                         of it.


                                     JODY
                         Did he say that?


                                     CLAIRE
                         Jody he was lying.


                                     JODY
                         What if he was? Do you think he wanted 
                         to bring that up again just when 
                         you're trying to make a new start?


                                     CLAIRE
                         I guess not.


                                     JODY
                         He's trying to put it behind him, 
                         Claire. You should too.


               Norman smiles and waves. They wave back as they arrive at 
               the Karman-Ghia.


                                     JODY
                         You've got a beautiful life. And 
                         even with this, it's always been 
                         clear that he loves you.
                              (beat)
                         I've come to think that's all that 
                         really matters.


                                     CLAIRE
                         I don't know...


                                     JODY
                         Trust me, Claire. You hear 
                         something... change the subject. You 
                         find something... get rid of it, 
                         throw it in the lake.
                              (beat)
                         You know what happened. The rest is 
                         only details. And no one's ever glad 
                         they got a hold of those. If you 
                         want to put this back together... 
                         just let it go.


               Jody drives off. Claire walks over to Norman. She hugs him 
               tightly.


                                     NORMAN
                         What's that for?


                                     CLAIRE
                         Nothing.


                                     NORMAN
                         I'm cooking you dinner.


                                     CLAIRE
                         You don't have to do that.


                                     NORMAN
                         I know.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Fine. I'll do the shopping.


               They kiss. She heads to the Volvo.


               INT. VOLVO - DAY


               Claire is approaching a country market. She spots a little 
               sign with an arrow:


                                     ADAMANT - 11 mi.


               She hesitates for a moment, then take the turn.


               EXT. ADAMANT - DAY


               Claire stands on a street in the quaint little village. She 
               looks around, spots a little cafe with outdoor tables. A 
               friendly old HIPPIE WOMAN walks out of a store. She watches 
               Claire gazing around.


                                     HIPPIE WOMAN
                         What are you looking for?


                                     CLAIRE
                         I don't really know.


                                     HIPPIE WOMAN
                         Know what you mean.


               She ambles off across the street. Claire watches her go.


               Then notices a sign hung out above a little shop. THREE 
               INTERLOCKED CIRCLES. She walks toward it.


               EXT. SHOP - DAY


               Claire stands in front of the store window. A sign in the 
               window identifies it as "The Sleeping Dog -- Hand wrought 
               jewelry and gifts." Claire tries to open the door, but sees 
               a closed sign.


               She steps back out to the window and looks in. On display 
               are a selection of handcrafted jewelry and curios.


               Suddenly her eye stops on a small silver bracelet with an 
               intricate ROSEBUD.


               Her eye travels up and behind it to the back of the display 
               where she spots, a small ORNATE COPPER CHEST. Protruding 
               from its lock... THE INTERLOCKED CIRCLES. Claire looks like 
               she's been punched.


               INT. NORMAN AND CLAIRE'S ROOM - NIGHT


               Claire glances over at the soundly sleeping Norman. She 
               gingerly slides out of bed.


               INT. BASEMENT - NIGHT


               Claire sits among the boxes, leafing through the photo album, 
               tracking the years of their life. Her hands tremble. Finally 
               she reaches the picture of their wedding, reaches behind the 
               photo and produces... THE KEY.


               EXT. DOCK - NIGHT


               Claire in her nightgown and a jacket, walks slowly down the 
               dock. An expensive looking flashlight illuminates her path.


               She stops and stares out at the moonlit lake.


               She holds out a fist. Her fingers unfold and in her palm 
               lies THE KEY. She holds the key out over the water and stands 
               there, frozen. The lighthouse beam sweeps past her once... 
               then again.


               Claire pulls her hand back and holds the key to her chest, 
               then carefully places it on the dock. She very deliberately 
               takes off her jacket and slippers, steps to the edge of the 
               dock, shines the flashlight on the dark water... then steps 
               off the dock.


                                                                    CUT TO:


               INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT


               AN ANGUISHED CRY from downstairs. Norman bolts upright in 
               bed.


               INT. NORMAN'S STUDY - NIGHT


               Norman walks through the darkened house into the moonlit 
               room. He pulls up short when he sees the strongbox sitting 
               closed on his desk. He looks around, sees the room is empty 
               and walks over to it.


               The mud and silt has been wiped from the top, on which is 
               engraved: To N.C.S. with love always, M.E.F. He pulls open 
               the lid and tentatively peers inside.


               THE LIGHTS SWITCH ON.


               Claire stands in the doorway, holding out the SILVER ROSEBUD 
               NECKLACE.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Looking for this?


               Norman stares at her dumbly.


                                     CLAIRE
                         She's out there isn't she? She's in 
                         the lake.


                                     NORMAN
                         Okay. Don't... you don't understand 
                         what this is.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Don't I, Norman? YOU KEPT THE FUCKING 
                         NECKLACE. Of a woman you killed!


                                     NORMAN
                              (nearly hysterical)
                         I did NOT! I did not kill anyone. 
                         Jesus. Claire, listen to me. I walked 
                         in and she was lying there dead. I 
                         swear to you. On my life! She took 
                         pills and she killed herself in our 
                         house to destroy me! To destroy us! 
                         If I hadn't stopped by here before 
                         school, the painters would have --


                                     CLAIRE
                         I don't believe you.


                                     NORMAN
                         IT'S TRUE. That's... you have to 
                         believe me! Oh God, I'm telling you 
                         the truth!
                              (beat, fighting tears)
                         I did what I had to, Claire. She was 
                         gone. There was nothing I could do 
                         for her. I did... I put her in the 
                         lake. I rolled the car in... and I 
                         watched it sink.
                              (beat)
                         And I've lived with that image ever 
                         since.
                              (beat)
                         I couldn't just stand there while 
                         everything -- my career, us, 
                         everything, just washed away. Don't 
                         you see, Claire? She's doing this! 
                         This is exactly what she wants you 
                         to think!


               Claire's lip is quivering with confusion.


                                     CLAIRE
                         I don't know what's true anymore.
                              (beat)
                         But that girl must be brought up. 
                         Now do you want to call the police? 
                         Or should I?


               Norman stares at the phone. He's a wreck.


                                     NORMAN
                         Fine. I can't live with it anymore.


               He takes the phone, punches in three numbers, waits.


                                     NORMAN
                         This is Dr. Norman Spencer. No, it's 
                         not an emergency.


               He looks at Claire.


                                     NORMAN
                         I have some information about a 
                         missing girl, Madison Frank... Yes. 
                         Could you send an officer? Fifteen 
                         Willoughby, about a mile before the 
                         bridge... Thank you.


               He hangs up. Long silence. They look at each other.


                                     NORMAN
                         You did the right thing.
                              (beat)
                         I'm going to get cleaned up.


               He walks out. Claire walks over and stands before the box.


               INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT


               Claire walks into the bedroom. The shower can be heard through 
               the bathroom door, which is partially ajar. Steam drifts out 
               through the crack.


               She stands in her dressing room and catches sight of her 
               weary, distraught countenance in the mirror. She glances 
               down.


               CLAIRE'S POV


               The necklace still in her hand.


               She looks up again into the mirror. Her face goes strangely 
               blank and, almost mechanically, she clasps the necklace onto 
               her neck.


               Suddenly, she stares over at the CORDLESS PHONE lying on the 
               bed for a long moment. She walks over, picks up the phone 
               and looks at it.


               CLAIRE'S POV


               The redial button.


               She stares at the bathroom door, then hits the button. Two 
               rings, then:


                                     VOICE
                              (on phone)
                         Directory assistance...


               Claire's eyes widen in terror. She clicks off the phone, 
               and, taking it with her, starts moving toward the door to 
               the hall. She keeps a steady eye trained on the bathroom. 
               She quietly pulls open the hallway door.


               Suddenly, A HAND WITH A WASHCLOTH IS THRUST OVER HER FACE.


               Claire shoves Norman's hand away and runs past him down the 
               hall.


               INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT


               She's nearly at the top of the stairs when her body starts 
               to falter. She tumbles over, dropping the phone, which 
               clatters down the stairs before her.


               Claire is pulling herself down the stairs, moaning in terror.


               Norman can be seen calmly following her, waiting for the 
               Halothane to take its full effect. Finally, she freezes.


               Norman picks up the phone and stands over her.


                                     NORMAN
                         God, how did we come to this?


               He picks her gently up in his arms and starts carrying her 
               slowly up the stairs.


                                     NORMAN
                         The ghost stuff, that was impressive.


               CLAIRE'S POV


               Ceiling, shapes...


                                     NORMAN
                         I figure you saw her that day in the 
                         house and just gradually intuited 
                         the whole damn thing. That would be 
                         pretty astonishing. A passive-
                         aggressive masterpiece.


               INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT


               And into the bathroom.


                                     NORMAN
                         Wasn't until the shower that I 
                         realized you actually believed it. 
                         Nearly froze to death waiting for 
                         you. Thought the circuit breaker 
                         would kick back over and I'd be toast.


               ...then she's lowered into the tub.


                                     NORMAN
                         The crazy thing is... I have never 
                         for one moment stopped loving you.


               He actually wipes a tear from his eye. He kisses her lips.


               We can feel her revulsion. His face over her.


                                     NORMAN
                         Don't worry about Caitlin. I'm sure 
                         in some tragic way this'll bring us 
                         closer together.


               He turns on the faucets, then moves out of her line of vision. 
               Sound of a number being dialed.


                                     NORMAN (O.S.)
                         Hey, it's Norman. Listen, we had a 
                         huge blowout, so I'm going down to 
                         sleep at the lab. I guess you're 
                         out, but... maybe... if you wouldn't 
                         mind stopping by to check on her in 
                         the morning?


               She glances down and sees on the edge of the tub... a 
               prescription bottle of VALIUM with her name on the label. 
               Her eyes go wide.


                                     NORMAN (O.S.)
                         It's just... Jody, it's bad. I've 
                         never seen her like this...
                              (he trails off, choking 
                              up)
                         I don't really know what to do 
                         anymore.


               Norman, lit periodically by the sweep of the light house 
               beacon, squats with the phone and gazes down at her.


                                     NORMAN
                         If anything ever happened to her, 
                         I'd...
                              (beat)
                         Anyway, thanks.


               Claire, mute, glances frantically around. One of her fingers 
               begins to flutter.


                                     NORMAN
                              (tearfully)
                         I'm so sorry.


               The tub is rapidly filling. He checks his watch, then reaches 
               for the Valium. As much from will as the drug beginning to 
               fade, Claire lets out a garbled cry.


                                     CLAIRE
                              (sloppy, guttural)
                         Mmmuh...


                                     NORMAN
                         Shhhh.


                                     CLAIRE
                              (slurry)
                         Mauduh...


               Norman stops.


                                     NORMAN
                         What?


                                     CLAIRE
                         MADISON!


               Norman seems unnerved that she's still clinging to her belief 
               in the ghost.


                                     NORMAN
                         That's a little much, don't you think?


               He sees the necklace on her neck.


                                     NORMAN
                         Oops. Can't have that.


               He puts down the bottle of Valium, then reaches around 
               Claire's neck to remove the necklace. When his hands close 
               on the clasp, his face suddenly goes slack.


               NORMAN'S POV


               His arms around MADISON'S BEAUTIFUL CORPSE.


               Norman explodes backwards, slamming his head into the BRASS 
               SHOWER NOZZLE. He staggers out of the bathroom before 
               collapsing with a thud. The water finally rises above Claire's 
               nostrils.


               Claire somehow manages to work a toe into the plug chain and 
               yank it free. The water slowly descends.


               When it seems that her lungs must burst, her mouth finally 
               clears the descending water. She chokes in great gulps of 
               air.


               The drug is finally wearing off. Claire sits up. Norman's 
               unconscious feet can be seen outside of the doorway. She 
               turns off the water and stands unsteadily.


               She looks around for the phone and finally spots the little 
               antenna protruding from under Norman. She delicately pulls 
               the phone out of his back pocket, only to discover that it's 
               been broken by his fall. She drops it and walks quietly out 
               of the room.


               INT. STAIRWAY - NIGHT


               Claire stumbles as fast as she can down the stairs.


               INT. FOYER - NIGHT


               She fumbles for some KEYS in a basket by the door, then looks 
               at the cell phone's recharging cradle. It's empty.


               She spots Norman's coat hanging on the coat rack and rifles 
               through the pockets. She finds the phone, and flips it open 
               to see if it's working. A drop of something splats on the 
               phone. Then another. It's blood.


               She looks up and sees Norman, his forehead gashed, glaring 
               down from the landing.


               She reaches for the door knob, but the keys and cell phone 
               in her hand make it difficult to open. Norman hurls himself 
               over the banister. THUD!


               A BLOODY HAND yanks her backwards. Claire slams into the 
               corner by the armoire. Norman advances on her. At the last 
               moment, she throws her shoulder into the armoire which tumbles 
               over on Norman.


               EXT. DRIVEWAY - NIGHT


               Claire races over to the Volvo, which is blocked by NORMAN'S 
               PICKUP, the dark hulk of THE SAILBOAT on a trailer behind 
               it.


               She starts to get into the pickup, then remembers to look in 
               the bed... nobody there.


               INT. PICKUP - NIGHT


               The truck is cold and doesn't want to turn over. She stares 
               at the door for signs of Norman.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Come on... come on...


               ...and VROOM, the truck roars to life. Claire spews gravel 
               as she barrels the cumbersome rig out of the driveway, 
               constantly watching the door.


               When she veers to the right out of the driveway, she looks 
               into the rear view mirror. The boat momentarily blocks the 
               open door, then clears. Still nothing.


               EXT. DIRT ROAD - NIGHT


               Claire wheels the truck and trailer out onto a two-lane road.


               INT. PICKUP - NIGHT


               Shivering with cold and adrenaline, she tries to work the 
               ancient heater. She turns onto THE BRIDGE.


               EXT. BRIDGE - NIGHT


               The PICKUP and BOAT race across the deserted bridge.


               INT. PICKUP - NIGHT


               ANGLE


               Claire through the windshield. Her face striped by the 
               reflection of the bridge lights which whip one-by-one across 
               the windshield. She flips open the cell phone and punches in 
               911. It blinks: "NO SERVICE."


                                     CLAIRE
                         Shit.


               She glances into the rear view mirror.


               CLAIRE'S POV


               A stern section of the boat's COVERING TARP untied, flapping 
               in the breeze.


               Claire desperately punches the "talk" button again... "NO 
               SERVICE." She's past the center of the bridge. She looks 
               again: "ROAM." Claire punches the talk button again.


               SMASH!


               A TRAILER CRANK punches through the window. Norman's arm 
               follows, coiling like a python around Claire's neck, his 
               grim visage pressed against the glass.


               She squashes down the accelerator.


               EXT. BRIDGE - NIGHT


               The trailer starts to weave from side to side, swerving the 
               pickup. Claire chokes, then blacks out.


               EXT. BRIDGE - NIGHT


               The Pickup and trailer smash through the railing, barreling 
               over bumpy terrain straight toward the BOAT RAMP.


               The truck hits the water at fifty and Norman is hurtled 
               through the rear window and into the passenger side dashboard.


               INT. PICKUP - MOMENTS LATER


               Claire is unconscious in the driver's seat, a trickle of 
               blood runs from her nose. Norman stirs briefly as Claire 
               groggily comes to. She hears the hissing of the smashed 
               radiator, then sees Norman, a shattered bloody mess on the 
               floor of the cab.


               She leans over to see if he's dead, hears a squeak and 
               realizes that the pickup, with the BATTERED SAILBOAT AND 
               TRAILER miraculously still attached, is rolling deeper into 
               the water.


               Before she can get the door open, the truck is half submerged. 
               She frantically manages to lower her window halfway and starts 
               to pull herself out.


               Her ribs have just cleared the glass when a bloody fist locks 
               onto her ankle and yanks her inside. Norman pulls her down 
               until they're face to face.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Norman... NO...


               She yanks the emergency brake, but it's too late... the 
               submerged wheels lock and slide slowly down the mossy ramp.


               The truck is nearly submerged.


                                     CLAIRE
                              (desperately)
                         Norman, please...


               The water is up to the windows. Norman shakes his head slowly 
               as he blinks away blood from his eyes.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Think of Caitlin...


               Water sprays in through the hole in the rear window and 
               momentarily blinds Norman. Claire jerks free and scrambles 
               out of the driver's side window as the truck sinks.


               Just as she's free of the window, she jerks to a stop. She 
               looks down and sees Norman, half out of the window, one hand 
               clamped onto her ankle.


               There is a wrenching metallic creak. The truck lurches 
               downward... then silence. IT DOESN'T SINK. The boat buoys it 
               like a fishing cork as it drifts out into the lake.


               The headlights pierce the darkness of the steep underwater 
               drop off. Claire tries to swim free, but Norman's not letting 
               go.


               Suddenly metal snaps and the truck pops free of the trailer.


               It hurtles downwards and the still-glowing headlights 
               reveal...


               MADISON'S SUBMERGED MUSTANG


               SMASH!


               When the front of the pickup lands on the hood of the car, 
               the Mustang's windshield shatters. A PALE SHAPE FLOATS UPWARD.


               Norman is suddenly entangled by something. He tries to brush 
               it free but comes face-to-face with MADISON'S GHASTLY, 
               DECOMPOSED FACE. The last of his air bellows out of him in a 
               scream as he releases Claire's ankle.


               His dead staring face separates from Madison's as the truck 
               slowly tilts back and sinks to the bottom.


               EXT. LAKE - DAWN


               Claire breaks the surface with a huge intake of air.


                                                                    CUT TO:


               UNDERWATER - DAWN


               The sound of a furious cello solo.


               COLD STARING EYES


               Norman, half out of the truck, arms floating.


               Follow his eyes to THE PALE CORPSE, drifting above, tethered 
               to the Mustang by an old seat belt around her ankle.


               Move through the murky water toward the corpse's clothed 
               back. As she twists into view...


               MORPHS INTO: MADISON'S PALE BEAUTIFUL FACE... at peace.


               Camera drifts, moves upward and breaks the surface as the 
               distant lights of EMERGENCY VEHICLES approach.


                                                                    CUT TO:


               FINGERS


               ...filled with moist earth. A hand tosses the clump of dirt 
               onto...


               EXT. CEMETERY - DAY


               A CASKET


               Widen to reveal Claire, dressed in black, stepping away from 
               the grave. A tiny arm snakes around her waist. She glances 
               down to see Caitlin, her eyes shining, clasping her mother 
               tightly. Claire takes a last look into the grave.


                                     CLAIRE
                         Rest in peace.


               THE GRAVESTONE - MADISON ELIZABETH FRANK


               Mother and daughter turn and step back. Next to them, also 
               in black, is MRS. FRANK.


                                                                    CUT TO:


               FINGERS


               Racing across the neck of a cello. The solo continues and 
               now reaches the difficult transition that had stumped Claire 
               before.


               WIDEN TO REVEAL


               INT. A LIVING ROOM - NIGHT


               Claire, her hair short and sexy, eyes tightly shut, brow 
               beaded with sweat. The piece builds to a dark, passionate 
               crescendo.


               Her eyes remain shut for a moment, then flutter open.


               CLAIRE'S POV


               A New York apartment, the glimmering skyline visible through 
               a large window. Cooper gazes up attentively.


               Claire sips a glass of wine, her face unsmiling, but serene.


               FADE OUT.


                                         THE END

Scripts.com 
Scary Movie By Shawn Wayans 
Page 1/94
EXT DREW'S HOUSE ' NIGHT 
Modest home on the outskirts of town where no one can hear you scream, HALLOWEEN NIGHT. 
INT. DREW'S KITCHEN ' NIGHT 
CLOSE ON YOUNG HOLLYWOOD STARLET, A LITTLE ADORABLE SEXPOT WE WOULD ALL LOVE TO SEE KILLED FOR THIS SCENE. She grabs a tin skillet of "Jiffy Pop" and puts it on the lit stove. 
PHONE RINGS. 
She answers. 
DREW: 
Hello. 
A raspy male voice with a southern accent familiar to most Americans. 
V.O. BILL 
Hey baby, what are you wearing?  
I got a new box of cigars I want 
you to' 
DREW: 
Hi Bill. Look, I can't talk right now. 
V.O. BILL 
Aw, come on. It took two bottles of 
Wild Turkey to get Hillary to sleep. Can't 
you just talk for a minute? 
DREW: 
I'm sorry. I can't. I got company coming 
any second. 
V.O. BILL 
Alright, well give me a kiss. 
She blows him a kiss. 
V.O. BILL (CONT'D) 
 Remember baby, who's yo daddy! 
A long tongue comes through the phone and licks her face. She slams down the phone. 
DREW: 
Pervert. 
Phone rings again. 
DREW: 
Look Bill, I told you' 
Page 2/94
SCARY VOICE: 
Who's Bill? Is that your boyfriend? 
DREW: 
Who is this? 
SCARY VOICE: 
Tell me your name and I'll tell you mine. 
DREW: 
I don't think so. 
SCARY VOICE: 
What's that noise? 
DREW: 
Oops, I farted, I didn't think you would hear me. 
SCARY VOICE: 
No, that popping noise. 
DREW: 
Oh, I'm making popcorn. I'm getting ready to watch a video. 
SCARY VOICE: 
Really? What's it called? 
DREW: 
Big black jocks' it's my favorite. There's this guy in it, Jimmy dang a lang. He's hung like' 
SCARY VOICE: 
What about scary movies? Do you have a favorite? 
DREW: 
Oh. Uhh' The one where the girl gets harassed on the phone. 
(she passes a "Scream" poster) 
A beat. 
SCARY VOICE: 
You have a nice voice, and you look 
Page 3/94
good in that tight blue sweater. 
DREW: 
(frightened) 
Oh my God! You can see me? I haven't even 
finished putting on my make-up! 
She hangs up, runs to a mirror, starts fixing her hair and puts on lipstick. 
Phone rings. She doesn't answer. It stops. Suddenly her pager goes off. Page reads 
"Killer 911". Drew screams. Then the computer voice says "You have a threat." 
Phone rings again. Drew answers. 
SCARY VOICE: 
Don't ever hang up on me again! 
DREW: 
What do you want? 
SCARY VOICE: 
To see you split up the middle. 
DREW: 
Sorry, I don't do G-strings. 
She hangs up. The phone rings immediately. 
DREW: 
Look you asshole. My boyfriend's gonna 
be here any second, and he plays football, and he'll kick the shit out of you. 
SCARY VOICE: 
Oh, really? Turn on the porch lights. 
Drew turns on the porch light. 
We see a TEENAGE BOY strapped to a chair, his mouth covered with duct tape. 
DREW: 
That's not my boyfriend. I fucked him a 
couple of times. But that's all. 
The lights go out. 
DREW: 
Page 4/94
Look, I'm calling the cops. 
 SCARY VOICE: 
You might want to check the back door 
first. You forgot to lock it. 
She screams and drops the phone in horror. She races to the back door. 
EXT. DREW'S BACK DOOR ' NIGHT 
We see a SHADOWY FIGURE also running to the back door. INT. DREW'S BACK DOOR ' NIGHT 
She gets there one step ahead of the shadowy figure and locks the door, then chains it, 
then puts "The Club" over the doorknob. 
Drew backs away from the door in terror. The figure disappears. The suspense 
mounts' 
DING DONG! The doorbell. Drew is frozen in fear ' who is it? 
She punches 9-1-1 on her cordless, then puts the receiver to her ear. 
SCARY VOICE: 
(from phone) 
Aren't you going to answer the door? 
DREW: 
Please'stop' 
 SCARY VOICE: 
What's the matter, Drew? Not having fun 
anymore? 
DING DONG! 
SCARY VOICE (CONT'D) 
Answer it. 
DREW: 
No' 
SCARY VOICE: 
It could be your friends. It's been ten minutes. INT./EXT. DREW'S FRONT DOOR ' NIGHT 
She moves to the front door slowly, then grabs a baseball bat out of the hall closet. 
Page 5/94
DREW: 
(gripping bat) 
I'm not afraid of you' 
SCARY VOICE: 
Then open the door. 
She raises the bat, then closes her eyes and flings the door open. 
With eyes still closed, she flails away with the bat. 
DREW: 
TAKE THAT YOU PSYCHO!! 
BANG! THUD! CRUNCH! She connects with several swings. She opens her eyes to find three LITTLE TRICK OR TREATERS, now lying knocked 
out on the front porch. 
DREW (CONT'D) 
Oops' 
She apologetically tosses the children candy, which only lands uselessly next to their 
broken arms. 
The children GROAN in pain as she closes the door. 
LITTLE BOY: 
I can't feel my legs' 
INT. DREW'S FRONT DOOR ' NIGHT 
Drew locks the door. As she turns, we see the KILLER ' right behind her. 
The Killer has on Scream attire. 
He raises a wicked looking knife and creeps up behind her. 
KILLER: 
Hello Drew. 
Drew freezes in her tracks ' it's the same scary voice from the phone.. 
She turns to see the Killer and SCREAMS! 
Drew takes off running, the Killer in pursuit. She goes out the front door. 
EXT. DREW'S FRONT YARD ' NIGHT 
Killer follows her at the casual horror movie pace. Drew sees a sign. It reads: SAFETY (Left arrow), DEATH (Right arrow). She runs to 
the right. 
Drew running. She stumbles. 
Page 6/94
NEW ANGLE ' REVEAL SHE"S LAYING IN A PERFECT CHALK OUTLINE 
OF: 
HER BODY. 
The killer is right behind, still walking at a casual pace. Drew looks over her shoulder. No matter how fast she runs, the killer keeps getting 
closer. 
Reveal Drew is on a treadmill. It stops. She checks her pulse, takes off running. 
Killer catches up. 
The Killer grabs her sweater. She slips out of it exposing her bouncy bra clad breasts. 
The chase continues. The Killer grabs her skirt. She slips out of it. 
Drew, in full sprint, in only a bra and panties, her hair short and wild. The sprinklers 
come on spraying her with water. 
SLOW MOTION DREW RUNS THROUGH THE WATER. 
Drew looks seductively at the camera as she shakes the water from her hair, continuing to 
seduce the lens as she caresses her breasts and runs her fingers through her hair. 
Back to normal, the Killer closes in. He grabs her around the neck, raises his knife, 
plunges it into her chest. 
A LOUD POPPING SOUND. 
CLOSE ON KNIFE AS IT PULLS BACK. ON THE END OF IT, A 
LEAKING: 
BREAST IMPLANT. 
Drew, wounded, continues to run with one deflated breast, the other normal. 
Drew sees headlights in the distance. She runs towards the car. 
The killer wipes the implant off his knife and gives chase. Drew standing on the road waving her arms at an oncoming car. 
DREW: 
Daddy, mommy, help! Help me! 
EXT. DREW'S HOUSE/ROAD ' NIGHT (CAR) 
DAD is driving, obviously not paying attention to the road, slams into Drew, sending her 
Page 7/94
flying. 
MOM pops up from DAD'S lap. 
MOM: 
Did you hear something? 
DAD: 
Nah, I didn't hear nothing. 
He pushes her head back down into his lap. 
Drew, lying on the road semi-conscious, the Killer standing over her. 
The Killer kneels and straddles her. 
CLOSE ON THE KNIFE. IT STRIKES THE FATAL BLOW. INT. CINDY'S ROOM ' NIGHT 
Cindy typing on her computer, a noise outside her window. Cindy looks at her window. 
Theme music from Dawson's Creek plays as a MALE CAST MEMBER climbs through 
the window. 
Cast member realizing he's in the wrong place. DAWSON CAST MEMBER 
Sorry, wrong set. 
He leaves through the adjacent window. 
Enter Bobby. 
CINDY: 
Bobby, what are you doing? My dad's in 
the other room. 
BOBBY: 
It just occurred to me I never 
climbed in your window before. 
CINDY: 
Well, now that you got it out of 
your system' 
SUDDENLY: 
The bedroom door bursts open. The doorknob catches on the open closet door jamming 
it, holding it in place. 
Cindy's dad looks through the partially opened door. DAD: 
Page 8/94
What's going on in there? 
CINDY: 
Can you knock? 
DAD: 
I thought I heard screaming. 
CINDY: 
No, you didn't. 
DAD: 
Must have been those 'shrooms I had earlier. Look, I gotta leave town. A recent business venture went bad, some money came up missing. I gotta lay low for a while. If a man named Tito calls, tell him to page me. If they raid the place' 
CINDY: 
I never heard of you. 
DAD: 
And don't forget' 
CINDY: 
'to flush your stash. 
DAD: 
If you need some money, I left a little something in the coffee can.  Be sure to cut it or somebody's gonna O.D. 
CINDY: 
Have a good trip. 
DAD: 
Sleep tight sweetie. 
Cindy closes the door. 
CINDY: 
That was close. 
Page 9/94
BOBBY: 
I was home watching "The Exorcist", and 
it got me thinking of you. 
CINDY: 
If this is about the time I puked green 
slime and masturbated with a crucifix, 
it was my first keg party. 
BOBBY: 
No, the movie was edited for T.V. All 
the good stuff was cut out. 
CINDY: 
So you thought you would just climb 
through my window and we would play bump 
bump? 
As they talk, a YOUNG STREET HOOD climbs in the window and starts loading things 
into a sack, no one notices. 
BOBBY: 
Well, I was hoping to get my 
balls licked but I wouldn't 
dream of breaking your underwear rule.  
I just thought we might do 
some "on top of the clothes" stuff. 
She snuggles up to him. 
CINDY: 
Okay, just for a minute. 
They kiss and lay back on the bed. He lifts up her nighty, slides his hand between her 
legs. She spreads her legs. 
He feels a shock. 
BOBBY STARTLED. 
Instead of elastic, tiny barbed wire runs along the perimeter. There's also a zapping 
electrified fence and a sign reading: NO TRESPASSING. 
BOBBY: 
I see. 
Undeterred, he kisses her again. 
Page 10/94
STREET HOOD TAKES BOBBY'S WALLET, PUTS IT IN HIS SACK AND 
CLIMBS: 
OUT THE WINDOW. 
CINDY: 
(Breaking the kiss) 
Okay stud, you have to go now. 
They stand and walk to the window. 
CINDY (CONT'D) 
I appreciate the romantic gesture. 
She takes his finger and puts it in her mouth sucking it slowly. 
He takes his finger out of her mouth ' it's now three times its' normal size and 
THROBBING. 
BOBBY: 
See what you do to me? 
He starts to climb out the window. 
CINDY: 
Hey, would you settle for PG-13? 
She opens her top, exposing her chest. 
We see eight tiny little titties. 
The shock sends Bobby falling out of the window. CINDY (CONT'D) 
Goodnight' 
EXT. HIGH SCHOOL ' PARKING LOT ' DAY 
Close on compact car. Bumper sticker reads "Save the Environment". Pull back reveal 
smoke billowing out of the exhaust. 
Cindy arrives. Brandy meets her curbside. 
BRANDY: 
Come on, girl, move your tired white 
ass. 
Cindy gathering her books and purse from the car. 
CINDY: 
I'm coming. 
BRANDY: 
Move your pasty white, milk chalky, 
Page 11/94
bologna smelling, cracker devil, honky 
bit' 
CINDY: 
Hello?! 
BRANDY: 
I'm sorry girl. I rented "Amistad" last 
night. I got issues. It's cool. Come 
on, we're gonna be late. 
They start to walk to class, when Cindy sees Buffy arriving via Daddy's new Mercedes. 
CINDY: 
Wait, there's Buffy. 
BRANDY: 
I don't know why you hang out with 
her. She's such a ho. 
CINDY: 
Why do you say that? 
BRANDY: 
Cause I've seen her. My friend Sean had 
a pool party this summer. 
CINDY: 
Sean? 
BRANDY: 
You know, Puff Daddy. 
BRANDY (CONT'D) 
Anyways, everybody was drinking Crystal 
champagne. Then it started to get wild, 
people was getting freaky in the pool and 
stuff. I looked over and there was your 
girl getting buck wild in the Jacuzzi. 
CINDY: 
So? 
BRANDY: 
With a backup dancer! That's lower than 
Page 12/94
a security guard! At least security can 
get you backstage. 
CINDY: 
I think Buffy is sweet. 
BRANDY: 
She's as fake as press on nails. 
They greet Buffy. 
BRANDY (CONT'D) 
Hey girl, what's up? 
Brandy and Buffy kiss as though they were best friends. BRANDY (CONT'D) 
Hey, lookin' good, love your hair! 
BUFFY: 
Thanks, just got it done. 
Cindy waves goodbye to Buffy's dad as he drives off. 
CINDY: 
Bye Mr. Gilmore! 
BUFFY: 
(not looking back) 
Is he gone? 
CINDY: 
Yes. 
Buffy rips off her clothes, revealing a sexy outfit underneath. She lets her hair down and with a shake of her head, a new do, worthy of a sex kitten. 
EXT. HIGH SCHOOL ' FRONT WALKWAY ' DAY 
The girls walk together towards campus. 
Brandy passes her a makeup pack. Buffy applies her makeup.  Cindy passes her the 
lipstick. Two strokes and the transformation from Daddy's baby to every high school 
guy's wet dream is complete. 
BUFFY: 
I love this color! 
CINDY: 
Let me see that. 
Page 13/94
Cindy checks the label. 
CINDY (CONT'D) 
You guys shouldn't use this brand. 
BRANDY: 
Why not? 
CINDY: 
Because they test their make-up on 
animals. 
BRANDY: 
So? 
CINDY: 
Have you seen what they do to those 
poor animals? 
Cindy shows them a flyer that reads "Stop Animal Testing".  A picture of a monkey in full make-up. 
BUFFY: 
(taking back the lipstick) 
Well, I'm more of a people person. 
BUFFY (CONT'D) 
I'd rather help my fellow man than some 
animal. 
A homeless man approaches. 
HOMELESS MAN: 
Spare a dollar? 
BUFFY: 
Get away from me you bum! 
CINDY: 
Buffy!? Can't you see that he's just hungry? Cindy gives the man a sandwich from her lunch bag. 
CINDY: 
Here you go. A nice sandwich. 
The girls walk away. Suddenly, Cindy is hit in the back of the head by the sandwich. 
HOMELESS MAN: 
Page 14/94
(V.O.) 
I said a dollar bitch! 
The girls attention is distracted by a commotion on campus. 
BUFFY: 
God, look at this place, it's a circus! 
EXT. HIGH SCHOOL ' FRONT ' DAY 
NEW ANGLE ' HOARDS OF MEDIA 
In the midst of the chaos, we pan around to see various reporters attempting to report the 
story. Close on young attractive overly ambitious woman, GAIL HAILSTORM, 
syndicated talk show host and author. 
Gail is giving an update on camera. Behind her an obnoxious KID is mugging for the 
camera. 
GAIL: 
Hello, I'm Gail Hailstorm, author of 
the book "You're Dead, I'm Rich". A 
small college town is in shock after 
the unthinkable has happened. 
KID in background is hamming it up. 
GAIL (CONT'D) 
A brutal killing spree that left one 
teen dead. 
KID really performing for the camera. Gail, annoyed, turns and shoots the kid. 
GAIL (CONT'D) 
Correction, two teens dead. 
Next reporter, straight laced WHITE MALE. 
WHITE MALE REPORTER 
Police are searching for clues. 
EXT. HIGH SCHOOL ' CURB SIDE ' DAY 
Then a BLACK MALE REPORTER, barely outside of his van, hurriedly gives his report. 
BLACK MALE REPORTER 
Reporting live for Black TV. White folks 
are dead, and we are about to get the 
hell out of here! Let's roll, Jack. 
His crew jumps in the van and they burn out. 
EXT. HIGH SCHOOL ' FRONT WALKWAY ' DAY 
BRANDY: 
Page 15/94
Do you believe this? 
CINDY: 
What happened? 
BUFFY: 
Didn't you hear? Drew Decker got killed 
last night. 
CINDY: 
(disturbed) 
What? Oh my God! She sits next to me in 
English class. 
BRANDY: 
Was she a friend? 
CINDY: 
No, I was gonna cheat off her test 
today. Now I'm like fucked! Do 
they know who did it? 
BRANDY: 
Clueless. 
BUFFY: 
They showed a picture of her body on 
the news. It was pretty scary. 
CINDY: 
All the blood? 
BUFFY: 
No, she was wearing a Gucci sweater 
and Payless shoes! That's such a 
fashion disaster! Do you think the 
press is going to interview us? 
BRANDY: 
No way. The press only want to interview 
the most ignorant person they can find. 
EXT. HIGH SCHOOL ' DAY 
The media is surrounding a young black teen sporting a short black afro with a pick 
Page 16/94
sticking out, a hemp emblemed t-shirt and a roach clip on a chain around his neck. He 
smiles, revealing a gold cap on a rotting tooth. His name is SHORTY. 
REPORTER: 
Can we have a word with you? 
SHORTY: 
Oh shit, I'm on TV. I wanna give a 
shout out to Shane and dem! Peace to my 
peeps, much love to the east and west, 
Tasha, wake up, the baby's daddy is a 
staraah!! 
REPORTER: 
What can you tell us about Drew Decker? 
SHORTY: 
She got a fat ass, kid! Ya know what I 
mean? 
EXT. HIGH SCHOOL ' DAY 
Shorty stands smoking a fat joint, looking up at two billboard ads. One reads, "Just Say 
No." The other, a Nike ad that reads, "Just Do It." He looks back and forth between the 
two. Heavily contemplating both messages. Finally, he looks down at his own tennis 
shoes. Then back up to the Nike ad. 
SHORTY: 
Yo, son, I'm with you. Just do that 
shit. 
He takes a long drag off his joint and exits. EXT. HIGH SCHOOL ' DAY 
Shorty and his HOMIES kick it up on the school lawn.  Getting high and tripping off 
Drew's death. 
SHORTY: 
Yo, son, that's fucked up that Drew 
got killed. 
HOMIE #1 
Word. 
Page 17/94
SHORTY: 
I didn't even get to fuck her. HOMIE #2 
True dat. True dat. 
SHORTY: 
I'm just glad that it wasn't one of us. HOMIE #1 
Word? 
SHORTY: 
Yo, son, don't you know? A brotha' never lasts long in these types of situations. 
HOMIE #2 
True dat. True dat. 
SHORTY: 
Kid, in the most successful horror flicks, most niggas don't even make it to the credits, yo. 
HOMIE #1 
Word. 
SHORTY: 
That's why we as a people have to come together and show up to the movies on time if we want to see our black people die. If you stop to get a forty, you could miss the whole thing. 
HOMIE #2 
True dat. True dat. 
SHORTY: 
'Cause you know they ain't gone never let us play the homeopathic killer. 
HOMIE #1 
Word. 
SHORTY: 
Oh, sure there's that one cat, Page 18/94
Candyman, but they don't even let that brotha wear a mask. Why not?  Jason, Michael Myers, even the Phantom of the Grand Ole Opry covers half his face. 
HOMIE #2 
True dat. True dat. 
SHORTY: 
But see, the thing is, they don't fit a description. On the other hand, without a mask, they could easily stick my man Candy in a 
line up and frame him for some trumped up bullshit. You see what I'm saying? HOMIE #1 
Uh, word? 
SHORTY: 
And tell me this, why he always got to be on C.P. time? 
SHORTY: 
You've got to call the brotha' 
repetitiously before he even shows up.  Candyman! Candyman! Candyman!  Nigga' you hear me callin you.  Bring your pimp lookin ass on.  Off chasing white girls. That's what got your hands cut off in the first place. Which brings me to my point, son. 
The two stare at him in confused silence. SHORTY (CONT'D) 
(as if it were obvious) 
Yo, it all started with a white girl.  So you know what that means. 
Continued silence. 
SHORTY (CONT'D) 
Drew's dead. We black. Candy.  Man. It's so obvious, kid. 
Blank stares. 
SHORTY (CONT'D) 
I've got the munchies like a mutha' Page 19/94
fucka'. 
Suddenly clarity registers with the homies. 
HOMIE #1 
Word. 
HOMIE #2 
True dat. True dat. 
INT. HIGH SCHOOL HALLWAY ' DAY 
The girls enter. 
V.O. 
Hey ladies! 
The girls turn to see SHORTY, young African American, cute, in an awkward kind of 
way. 
CINDY: 
Hi Shorty. 
BRANDY: 
Talk to the hand. 
She puts her hand in his face. 
SHORTY: 
Cindy? 
CINDY: 
Can't Shorty. 
SHORTY: 
Oh well, you force me to open it up 
to hundreds of other girls who would 
die for the opportunity, but just 
because I like you guys, I'm gonna 
wait till lunch before I go public.  
See ya at the fountain. 
Shorty heads to class. 
BUFFY: 
Whatever! What a geek! 
CINDY: 
I think Shorty is cute. If I wasn't 
dating Bobby, I would go out with him. 
BRANDY: 
Page 20/94
Shit girl, Bobby lives in a trailer.  
Dating Shorty would be a step up. 
CINDY: 
If how much money a guy has is so 
important, why are you dating Ray? 
BRANDY: 
First of all, look at him. He's 
100% man. 
P.O.V. GIRLS 
Ray and Greg standing at lockers. 
Ray takes off his shirt, exposing his muscular upper body.  He slips on a ty-dyed tank top. 
RAY: 
Yo, man, this shirt make me look gay. 
GREG: 
Nah. 
Ray ties the lower part of the tank top in a knot and rolls it above his navel. 
RAY: 
How about now? 
Back to girls. 
BRANDY: 
Besides, the boys got potential, 
girl. Ray runs a 4.4 40, has a 
3.5 GPA and he's being scouted by 
every major college in the country.  
If he stays healthy, we're talking 
multi million dollar contract and 
that's not including endorsements.  
Now Greg on the other hand, that's 
somebody else's mess. 
BUFFY: 
I'll admit, the pro's is a long shot 
for Greg. He's been injured twice 
and he's not that bright. 
P.O.V. BUFFY 
Greg slamming his head into the lockers, obviously upset Page 21/94
about something. 
BUFFY (CONT'D) 
And the only way we'll see him in prime 
time in on "Cops". But for now, he's the 
hottest guy in the school and even if 
I don't want him, I'm not going to let 
anyone else have him. 
The girls meet up with Greg and Ray at the lockers. 
BRANDY: 
Hey baby. 
Brandy kisses Ray. 
BUFFY: 
What's the matter, honey? 
GREG: 
I got my report card. 
He hands it to Buffy. 
REPORT CARD READS: D.U.M.B.A.S.S. 
BUFFY: 
At least you got one "A". 
GREG: 
Yeah, I did huh? 
CINDY: 
Anybody seen Bobby? 
RAY: 
Nah. That kid is late every day.  
I don't get it. He lives so close. 
EXT. HIGH SCHOOL PARKING LOT ' BOBBY'S TRAILER ' DAY Bobby exits, books in hand. Pull back to reveal the trailer is parked in the school parking 
lot. 
EXT. HIGH SCHOOL FOUNTAIN ' DAY 
Bobby joins the gang sitting at the fountain. 
BOBBY: 
Hey guys. Hey Cind. 
Bobby kisses Cindy. 
BOBBY (CONT'D) 
Page 22/94
You guys see all the reporters out 
there? They say that girl Drew 
Decker got killed last night. 
RAY: 
I think I knew her. She had a brother 
named Steve, pretty eyes, long hair, 
perfect ass. 
BOBBY: 
Yeah, that was her. 
RAY: 
No, I was talking about Steve.  
Whatever happened to him? 
BOBBY: 
I don't know. 
CINDY: 
Hey, do you guys think it's strange 
that she got killed exactly one year 
after we, you know, killed that guy? 
GREG: 
Hey, it was an accident. 
CINDY: 
Was it? 
EXT. PARKING LOT ' NIGHT - (FLASHBACK ' ONE YEAR AGO) 
GREG: 
Hey dude. Nobody drives my car but 
me! Well, except for that big black 
guy that car jacked me last month, he 
drove it, but other than that, nobody 
drives my car but me. Okay, there 
was that one time the dope man had 
it for a week because I owed him 
for a bag of weed, but other than 
that' 
CINDY: 
You know cars are only to make guys 
Page 23/94
feel more secure about the size 
of their penises. 
GREG: 
What's that supposed to mean? 
Bobby takes the keys from Greg. 
BOBBY: 
She's kidding, come on. 
Greg approaches Buffy. 
GREG: 
Why did you tell Cindy about it? 
BUFFY: 
I didn't say anything. 
GREG: 
Then why did she make that comment? 
BUFFY: 
Greg, you know I would never tell 
anyone our little secret. 
She kisses him. Cindy walks by. She holds up her pinky.  Buffy giggles. 
They get in the car and drive off. 
EXT. MOUNTAIN ROAD ' NIGHT (GREG'S CAR) 
Bobby and Cindy in the front, the other two couples in the back. 
The two couples are making out. 
Greg opens a bottle of liquor. 
Greg takes a sip, then another. Slowly, he starts to feel good. 
GREG: 
Hey, let's put on some music. 
Ray pulls a tape out of his pocket. 
RAY: 
Here, put this on. 
Bobby puts in the tape. 
The song "It's Raining Men" blares out speakers. Everyone looks at Ray. 
RAY (CONT'D) 
Page 24/94
Hey, it's a classic. 
GREG: 
Let's put on the radio. 
Greg ejects the tape and finds a station. Loud rock music fills the car. 
GREG: 
Now that's more like it. Yeah. 
Greg nods to the music. 
GREG (CONT'D) 
(yelling) 
AYOO!!! 
Greg stands up, pokes his head through the sunroof, takes another swig of liquor and 
yells as he enjoys the wind against his face. 
EXT. MOUNTAIN ROAD ' NIGHT (GREG'S CAR) 
Ray and Brandy in the back are really going at it hot and heavy. 
BOBBY: 
(adjusting the rear view mirror) 
Look at what they're doing. 
CINDY: 
Bobby, keep your eyes on the road. 
BOBBY: 
When are we gonna do stuff like that? 
CINDY: 
One day. 
Bobby unzips his pants. 
CINDY: 
What are you doing? 
BOBBY: 
I just want you to touch it. 
EXT. MOUNTAIN ROAD ' NIGHT ' (GREG'S SUNROOF) 
Greg yelling. This time in tears as he realizes he is about to be hit by a low hanging 
branch. 
Thud. His head goes reeling. 
Page 25/94
EXT. MOUNTAIN ROAD ' NIGHT ' (GREG'S CAR) 
Cindy gingerly touching Bobby's crotch. He closes his eyes momentarily. 
BOBBY: 
Oh yeah. 
Suddenly, Greg's liquor bottle comes falling through the sunroof, crashing against 
Cindy's head, sending her face down into Bobby's lap. BOBBY (CONT'D) 
(shocked) 
Oh yeah! That's what I'm talking about. 
Bobby lays his seat back. 
EXT. MOUNTAIN ROAD ' NIGHT ' (GREG'S SUNROOF) 
Greg's head, passing through the tree branches, emerges with a bee hive wrapped around 
his face. He desperately tries to remove it. 
EXT. MOUNTAIN ROAD ' NIGHT ' (GREG'S CAR) 
It looks like a wild orgy. 
Bobby steering with his bare feet. 
Cindy trying to raise her head but is being stepped on by Greg. 
EXT. MOUNTAIN ROAD ' NIGHT ' (GREG'S SUNROOF) 
Greg finally removes the hive. He sees something in the road. 
GREG: 
Look out! 
EXT. WINDING ROAD ' NIGHT ' (GREG'S CAR) 
Bobby hears Greg's scream. He too sees something. Bobby swerves to avoid it. 
BOBBY: 
Oh my God! 
The car goes spinning out of control before it finally comes to a stop. 
BOBBY (CONT'D) 
What was that? 
CINDY: 
I think we hit something. 
EXT. WINDING ROAD ' NIGHT 
Everyone gets out of the car. 
Buffy finds a boot. 
Page 26/94
BUFFY: 
Oh my God! We hit a boot! 
They see a man lying unconscious in the road. 
CINDY: 
Ahh! It's a body! 
RAY: 
Is he alive? 
BOBBY: 
I don't know. 
BUFFY: 
Let me check' 
Buffy kneels next to the body. 
BUFFY (CONT'D) 
Hey mister, you want a blow job? 
No answer. 
BUFFY (CONT'D) 
He's dead. What are we gonna do? 
She quickly backs up and joins the rest of the group. The man slowly starts to gain consciousness. The kids don't see him, caught up in their own drama. 
CINDY: 
We have to call the police. 
RAY: 
No way, I ain't going to jail. 
CINDY: 
We have to. 
GREG: 
Do you know what happens to a young boy 
in prison? All those sex starved 
convicts just waiting for a fresh 
piece of meat. 
RAY: 
You're right. Maybe we should call 
the police. 
Page 27/94
Behind them we see the man sit up. He calls out to them. 
MAN: 
That's not necessary. I'm fine. 
They can't hear him. They're too busy yelling at each other. 
BOBBY: 
Think about it, Ray. If you do that 
you ruin the rest of this movie. This 
is your chance to crossover, Ray. 
RAY: 
White girls?! 
Bobby nods yes. 
RAY (CONT'D) 
What do we do first? 
BOBBY: 
We'll hide the body. 
CINDY: 
I won't have anything to do with this. 
In the background, the man is now standing, brushes himself off and calls out to the group again. 
MAN: 
I guess I'll be going now. 
Again he's ignored. He shrugs his shoulders and starts to walk away. 
BUFFY: 
What about the alcohol? 
GREG: 
We'll get rid of it. 
Greg tosses the bottle over his shoulder. It crashes the man on the head, knocking him out. He flops back on to the road, just as the group turns to look at him. GREG (CONT'D) 
Now let's get him in the trunk. Move the car closer. As the three of them talk among themselves, one of them gets in the car and backs it up. The Man sits up 
again, shaking his head clear. 
Page 28/94
He gets up just as the car backs up into him. Knocked unconscious again, he falls flat on the road. Just then, the kids turn around. 
BOBBY: 
We'll throw him in the ocean. 
They throw him in the trunk and look at each other as they talk. 
BOBBY (CONT'D) 
We'll go down to Steveson and dump him in 
there. The sharks will take care of 
the evidence. 
The Man wakes up again in the trunk, but the kids aren't looking at him. 
Not looking at him, Brandy slams the trunk lid down on the Man's head. 
Greg tries slamming it down again and again. 
EXT. PIER ' NIGHT 
They get him out of the trunk and carry him over to the edge of the road, which is 
overlooking the ocean. 
CINDY: 
Wait. Shouldn't we check his wallet? 
BUFFY: 
For what? 
BRANDY: 
Shit, he might have some money. We 
already committed murder. Might as 
well rob his ass. 
BOBBY: 
Good idea. I'll take credit cards. 
BRANDY: 
I want the jewelry. 
RAY: 
I'll take his underwear. 
They finish stripping the man then toss his naked body over the side. 
Page 29/94
GREG: 
We must never mention this again. 
CINDY: 
Mention what? 
GREG: 
The guy we just killed. 
CINDY: 
Well, you just mentioned it. 
GREG: 
Starting now. 
EXT. HIGH SCHOOL FOUNTAIN ' DAY (PRESENT) 
BOBBY: 
That's all behind us now, Cindy, we 
have to move on. 
GREG: 
Yeah, it's just a coincidence. 
BUFFY: 
Greg's right, Cindy. I mean what do 
you think we're in, a horror movie? 
Cindy relaxes and smiles. 
CINDY: 
Yeah, if it were, they'd probably cast 
some ding-bat like Jennifer Love "Huge-Tits" 
to play me. 
They share a laugh as the bell rings and everyone heads to class. 
EXT. HIGH SCHOOL ' CURBSIDE ' DAY 
Skate boarders cruise by, followed by guy with no legs on a skate board. 
Cindy walks toward building, she passes Gail's news van. Kenny sees Cindy. He knocks at the van. Gail answers from inside. 
GAIL V.O. 
I'm putting on my make up. 
Kenny opens the van door. 
Gail turns around. We see a decrepit old woman. Page 30/94
GAIL: 
Close the goddamn door! 
Kenny, horrified, slams the door. 
EXT. HIGH SCHOOL ' FRONT ' DAY 
Gail trying to get information from the sheriff. 
GAIL: 
Sheriff, can I get a statement? 
SHERIFF: 
No comment. 
Gail spots Doofy and approaches him. 
GAIL: 
Hi, Gail Hailstorm, field reporter, Hard 
Story. 
DOOFY: 
Special Officer Doofy. 
GAIL: 
Is there a problem on campus? 
DOOFY: 
Not while Doofy's on the job. 
GAIL: 
Well, of course not, handsome. 
He salutes her and a student walking by and smacks his hat off his head. He scrambles 
for it, then resumes his composure. 
DOOFY: 
(embarrassed) 
You shouldn't be here. 
GAIL: 
I know. I should be on my knees 
covering the next presidential 
election. But who knew? 
She tickles Doofy. He farts. 
DOOFY: 
Page 31/94
Excuse me. 
GAIL: 
You look awfully young to be a 
police officer. 
DOOFY: 
I'm twenty-five and a half years 
old. That's this many. 
He spreads his fingers on his hands twice. Then once on one hand and gives her a bent 
thumbs up. 
GAIL: 
You know, I prove to be most popular 
with males eleven to twenty-four. And 
most prison lesbians. Of course, you 
don't look a day over twelve. Except 
for that big head and glazed over look 
in your eyes. Ooh, look a little drool. 
DOOFY: 
Yeah, sometimes I forget to swallow. 
GAIL: 
Don't worry, I never do. 
She tickles him again and he farts again. 
GAIL (CONT'D) 
Remind me not to do that again. 
Suddenly they are interrupted by an announcement. PRINCIPAL V.O. 
Hello, due to the recent events, a curfew 
has been placed effective immediately. 
GAIL: 
Sounds like we've got a serial 
killer on our hands. 
DOOFY: 
That's official police business. 
GAIL: 
Are there any suspects? 
Page 32/94
DOOFY: 
I can't say mama. 
Gail notices Doofy's large penis. 
GAIL: 
I say, that's a mighty big night 
stick you got there. 
DOOFY: 
My mom says I can't play with it 
cause I might poke someone's eye 
out. 
GAIL: 
I can see how that could happen. Say, 
what do you say we go back to my van and 
get to know each other a little better? 
DOOFY: 
Ok. 
INT. HIGH SCHOOL CLASSROOM ' DAY 
Cindy and Buffy enter. Cindy notices something immediately. A bird in a cage. 
CINDY: 
You see? This is the kind of 
cruelty I'm talking about. What's 
an animal doing in here? 
STUDENT: 
He's our mascot. We adopted him. 
CINDY: 
No way. This animal is supposed to 
be free and spread his wings. 
Cindy opens the cage and removes the bird. She walks over to the window. 
STUDENT: 
What are you doing? 
CINDY: 
Setting him free. 
She tosses the bird out the window. 
Page 33/94
CINDY (CONT'D) 
Fly, little birdy, soar little fella. 
STUDENT: 
You asshole, his wings were broken. We 
were nursing him back to health! 
The bird falls to it's death. 
CINDY: 
Oops! My bad. 
INT. HIGH SCHOOL CLASSROOM ' DAY 
A frumpy woman, MISS TATE, faces the class. Tragic look on her face. 
MISS TATE: 
A terrible tragedy and an unbearable  
loss. It's days like today we need 
prayer in school. 
Pull back. Reveal she is breast feeding a baby. She removes the baby from her breast, 
hands it to a nerdy fifteen year old student. MISS TATE (CONT'D) 
Here, go to your daddy. 
MISS TATE (CONT'D) 
Okay class, we've been discussing the 
constitution this week. Who would like to 
give their oral presentation first? 
Young girl excitedly raises her hand. 
MISS TATE: 
Okay, Heather. 
Heather runs to the front of the class. 
HEATHER: 
My presentation is on the First Amendment, 
which protects freedom of speech. 
NEW ANGLE CLASS: 
Cindy is distracted by something outside the window. A man wearing a mask and Scream attire looking at 
her. He ducks behind a tree when she looks. 
Cindy turns her head quickly to the class then quickly back to the window, catching the killer as he steps from behind the tree. 
Page 34/94
Killer freezes. 
Cindy and killer play peek-a-boo, finally he disappears. Cindy notices a note on her desk. She opens it. 
Note reads: 
EXT. PARK ' DAY (CINDY'S FLASHBACK) 
Flashback to romantic picnic in the park. 
INT. HIGH SCHOOL ' CLASSROOM ' DAY 
Cindy smiles, finds a second note. 
Note reads: 
killed". 
Cindy's face struck with terror. 
Back to Heather who's been talking the whole time. 
HEATHER: 
That's whats so important about the 
First Amendment. It gives us the right 
to say what we want without fear of 
retaliation 
Smack! Heather goes flying. 
MISS TATE: 
Aw, shut the fuck up and sit down. 
A student enters the class and hands Miss Tate a note. MISS TATE (CONT'D) 
Cindy, you're next. The sheriff's ready 
to see you. 
Cindy grabs her books and exits. 
INT. HIGH SCHOOL ' PRINCIPALS OFFICE ' DAY 
The LOCAL SHERIFF, a short pudgy balding man, late 40's, and the SCHOOL 
PRINCIPAL, Mr. Fonzy, mid 40's, average looking, nice guys, waiting to interrogate the 
next student. 
SHERIFF: 
So, who's next? 
PRINCIPAL: 
Cindy Campbell. She's the daughter of, 
you know' 
He makes an obscene gesture with his hand and mouth. Page 35/94
SHERIFF: 
Oh, you mean Mrs' 
Sheriff makes an obscene gesture poking his finger in and out of a circle. 
PRINCIPAL: 
That's right, old Mrs' 
Another gesture, more graphic. 
SHERIFF: 
The one and only. 
Sheriff starts humping the air and climbs on the desk. He starts having simulated sex.  
He gets so into it he brings himself to climax just as Cindy enters. 
PRINCIPAL: 
Hello Cindy. 
Sheriff recovers himself, lights a cigarette and greets Cindy. He has a big wet spot in the 
front of his pants. 
CINDY: 
Principal Fonzy. Hello Sheriff. 
Cindy takes a seat. She greets ANOTHER MAN who has just entered, his name is DOOFY, let's call him 
"slow", late teens, early 20's. He wears a make-shift police uniform. 
CINDY (CONT'D) 
Hello Doofy. 
DOOFY: 
That's Officer Doofy today, Cind. 
PRINCIPAL: 
Cindy, we'd like to ask you some questions. 
Sheriff annoyed by something. 
SHERIFF: 
What's that God awful smell? 
DOOFY: 
I go poopy. 
Page 36/94
SHERIFF: 
Get him outta here. 
PRINCIPAL: 
Doofy, it's time to go back to special 
ed. Maybe the sheriff will let you 
play later, ok. 
DOOFY: 
Ok. 
Doofy exits. 
SHERIFF: 
So, how are you Cindy? 
CINDY: 
Fine, Sheriff and yourself? 
SHERIFF: 
Bloated, constipated, got a boil on my 
ass the size of a walnut, you know, the 
usual. So we wanna ask you a few 
questions about Drew Decker. 
EXT. HIGH SCHOOL FOOTBALL FIELD ' DAY 
The football team is practicing on the field. EXT. NEW ANGLE ' INSIDE HUDDLE ' DAY 
Ray calls the play. 
RAY: 
25 dive play on 2. Break! 
They clap hands, break huddle and set formation. Ray at the quarterback position steps up behind the center who is bent over ready to hike 
the ball. 
RAY (CONT'D) 
24, 25, 15, 22, 55, 66, 11, 45, 
96, 17, 12, 37' 
CENTER: 
Hey, you gonna call hike or what? 
RAY: 
Oh, my bad! Hike! Hike! 
Center snaps the ball. Ray steps back to pass, revealing Page 37/94
he's got a hard on. He throws 
the ball and makes the play. 
Coach blows the whistle, ending practice. The players rush to the locker room. 
INT. MEN'S LOCKER ROOM ' DAY 
Players enter after a tough work out. 
Ray is first. He starts to undress. Several players pass Ray and he congratulates each of 
them with a pat on the ass. 
RAY: 
Hey Murphy, nice catch. Dugan, good 
block. Johnson, what a move. Woodward, 
nice ass. 
Woodward looks at him strange, continues on. 
Ray heads to the shower, towel wrapped around his waist. He notices Greg lingering. 
RAY (CONT'D) 
Hey Greg, you comin'? 
GREG: 
In a minute, I'm gonna work out first. 
RAY: 
Okay' Alright, guys, last one in is a 
rotten egg. 
Ray snatches off his towel, playfully swatting the other players. 
INT. MEN'S LOCKER ROOM ' DAY 
The last of the players exit. Greg appears from behind the locker wearing just a towel.  
He makes sure the place is empty. Greg walks to the showers, very careful to keep his 
towel wrapped around him until he's safely inside one of the stalls. Even then, he 
surreptitiously looks around to make sure no one's around before removing the towel. 
Greg approaches his locker and sees a Polaroid photograph sticking out of it. He pulls it 
out and looks at it. It's a photo of his tiny penis with the words "I Know" written 
underneath. Greg freaks. 
GREG: 
Page 38/94
(yelling and searching the empty locker room) Where are you?! Who did this?! This 
isn't funny, all right? ' a small dick's 
like a disability, man! Would you make 
fun of somebody in a wheelchair? Huh?  
Would you, you sick fuck? 
In the locker room, you see a kid in a wheelchair pushed by another student real fast into 
the lockers, ala "Slingblade". 
GREG (CONT'D) 
Where are you, you chicken shit? 
As he continues his ranting and his search, we' 
FADE OUT: 
EXT. HIGH SCHOOL FRONT STEPS ' DAY 
Cindy exits. 
Brandy joins Cindy. 
BRANDY: 
Hey girl, you okay? 
CINDY: 
Yeah, just that some strange things 
have been going on today. 
Suddenly, Brandy's cell phone rings. She answers. Terror crosses her face. 
BRANDY: 
Hello. Who is this? What do you want 
from me? No please stop! I'm gonna 
call the police if you don't stop 
calling me! 
She hangs up, visibly shaken. 
BRANDY (CONT'D) 
It was him again! He keeps harassing 
me, sending me notes, calling me on 
the phone. I'm so scared! 
CINDY: 
The killer? 
BRANDY: 
No, M.C. Hammer! 
Brandy spots girls approaching. 
Page 39/94
BRANDY (CONT'D) 
Aw, shit, I hope that tramp ain't coming 
over here. 
CINDY: 
Who, Tanya? 
BRANDY: 
I don't like her cause she's phoney. I'm talking faker than a swap meet hair weave. 
Tanya arrives. Again hugs and kisses from Brandy. BRANDY (CONT'D) 
What's happenin'? Girl, I ain't seen 
you in ages. 
TANYA: 
Right, since the video. Listen, I 
just wanted to know if you guys were 
coming to the pageant tonight. 
BRANDY: 
Aw, I can't. I gotta study. 
TANYA: 
Cind? 
(V.O.) BUFFY 
She's going to cheer for me. 
Buffy joins the girls. 
TANYA: 
Oh, I see. Well, whatever. Good luck, 
Buff. 
Buffy gives a fake smile. Tanya walks away. 
BUFFY: 
(under her breath) 
Slut. 
TANYA: 
(under her breath) 
Ho. 
EXT. HIGH SCHOOL FOUNTAIN ' DAY (LATER) 
Bobby, Cindy, Ray, Brandy, Buffy, Shorty are sitting around the fountain, discussing the 
Page 40/94
murder. 
CINDY: 
The police asked me a whole lot of 
questions. 
BRANDY: 
Yeah, my brother Shorty is still in 
there. 
Shorty approaches. 
SHORTY: 
Yo, yo , what's up? 
RAY: 
How'd it go with the police? 
SHORTY: 
They tried to intimidate a brother but 
I told them I don't talk to pigs and I 
ain't dropping dime on nobody. I just 
told them where they could shove it. 
Shorty reveals he has a plunger sticking out of his ass. 
BOBBY: 
They asked me if I knew how to hunt. 
BUFFY: 
That's funny, they asked me if I like 
it doggie style. 
CINDY: 
It's a shame how she died. She was 
such a nice girl. 
BUFFY: 
You know she used to babysit my brother 
Doofy. He had the biggest crush on her. 
SHORTY: 
Hey, didn't Greg used to go out with her? 
BUFFY: 
What are you saying? Greg killed her? 
Page 41/94
SHORTY: 
No, but it makes him a suspect. 
BUFFY: 
Oh, yeah, where were you last night? 
SHORTY: 
I was chillin' at the crib watching an ill kung fu flick called Tae Bo. There was 
this ugly ass brother and he looked like a burnt up Keenen Ivory Wayans but the 
ill shit is, he didn't fight nobody he just warmed up the whole time. 
SHORTY (CONT'D) 
What did you do last night? 
BUFFY: 
I was in bed all night. 
SHORTY: 
Can you prove it? 
BUFFY: 
Sure I can, right guys? 
Cut to the entire football team. They all nod yes. BUFFY (CONT'D) 
Here comes Greg. Now let's see what 
he thinks of your suspect theory. 
Greg approaches. He's pissed. He goes after Ray. 
GREG: 
Ray, you're a dead man! 
Greg rushes toward ray. Bobby stops him. 
BOBBY: 
Easy Greg. What's the problem? 
GREG: 
I'll tell you the problem! 
Greg shows Bobby the picture of his penis. The words written "I Know" written on it. 
BOBBY: 
Page 42/94
Oh, wow! This is you? Oh fuck! 
Bobby starts to laugh uncontrollably. 
GREG: 
Hey, the shower was cold! 
BRANDY: 
Let me see. 
Bobby passes her the picture. 
Brandy starts laughing, passes it to Buffy, who passes it to Ray and Shorty who burst into 
laughter. 
BRANDY (CONT'D) 
My God, how do you even give him head? 
BUFFY: 
I don't. I just use it to pick my 
teeth. 
GREG: 
My nuts are big, they just make my 
dick look small. 
They all laugh. Greg realizes what he's started. The photo keeps changing hands. Everyone laughing. TWO CHINESE GUYS are looking at the photo. 
CHINESE GUY: 
Now that's a little dick. 
GREG: 
It's a Polaroid! There's no dimension! 
A LITTLE PERSON gets a look, cracks up, tosses it, it lands in a baby carriage. 
LITTLE BABY laughing at photo tosses it. 
TWO MICE look at photo, laughing. 
Back to Greg. 
GREG (CONT'D) 
All of you can go to hell! 
CINDY: 
Greg, you're not the only one 
who got one. 
GREG: 
Page 43/94
Bobby's got a baby dick too? 
CINDY: 
No, I was talking about the note.  
I got one too. 
Everyone stops laughing. Cindy shows them the note. CINDY (CONT'D) 
Somebody knows. 
GREG: 
Bullshit. Somebody's just trying 
to fuck with us. 
CINDY: 
I think we should go to the police. 
Greg grabs Cindy around the throat. 
GREG: 
You talk and I'll kill you myself. 
BOBBY: 
Greg, chill, you're hurting her. 
Greg lets go. 
SHORTY: 
Somebody want to tell me what that 
was all about? 
CINDY: 
Forget it, Shorty. You've already 
heard too much. 
Bell rings. Everyone walks off, leaving Shorty standing confused. 
INT. AUDITORIUM STAGE ' NIGHT 
Sign reads "Miss Teen Beauty Pageant" 
M.C. on stage introduces the contestants. 
M.C. 
And now for our finalists. Aren't 
they beautiful, except for that motley 
looking one? Hot damn, where's the 
muzzle? 
PAN ACROSS FIVE BEAUTY FACES AND ONE OLD HAG. The old hag remains confident. Two of the pretty girls run off stage, thinking the M.C. is 
Page 44/94
talking about them. 
M.C. (CONT'D) 
This is the swimsuit portion of the 
show, giving our judges one final 
look at the contestants. 
First contestant, TANYA, her banner reads "Miss Congeniality". She waves as she 
parades across the stage. 
Second contestant, black, with beaded braids, not only on her head, but under her arms 
and pubic hair as well. The banner reads "Miss Thang". Third contestant is Buffy, she struts her stuff, her banner reads "Miss Fellatio". 
INT. AUDITORIUM ' BALCONY ' NIGHT 
Bobby, Cindy, and Greg watching Buffy on stage. Greg cheers for Buffy. 
GREG: 
Whoa! That's my girl! 
VOICE IN CROWD #1 
Mine too! 
VOICE IN CROWD #2 
Yeah, I'm hittin' that too. 
CINDY: 
Hey, I'm gonna go downstairs so I 
can get a closer seat. I'll see 
you guys when it's over. 
Cindy heads downstairs. 
BOBBY: 
Hey man, I'm gonna run to the head 
real quick. Want me to bring you 
back anything? 
GREG: 
Nah, I'm cool. Just hurry back.  
She's gonna perform first. 
BOBBY: 
Don't worry, I'll be back. 
INT. AUDITORIUM ' STAGE ' NIGHT 
BACK TO THE PAGEANT 
M.C. 
Page 45/94
And now for the question in the 
spirit of Mother Theresa. What will 
be your contribution to society contestant #1? 
TANYA: 
I will heal the sick, feed the poor, and 
never change my dress. 
M.C. moves down the line. 
MISS THANG: 
Like Martin Luther King once said, 
"Can't we all just get along?" 
BUFFY: 
I thought we discussed this last 
night in your hotel room. You 
said if I' 
M.C. cuts her off. 
M.C. 
Let's go to the talent portion of the 
show. Let's welcome contestant #3, 
Buffy Gilmore. 
Buffy crosses the stage. 
M.C. (CONT'D) 
Okay, Buffy, tell us what is your 
talent this evening? 
BUFFY: 
Acting. I'll be doing a dramatic 
reading. 
INT. AUDITORIUM ' BALCONY ' NIGHT 
GREG: 
Yeah, baby, yeah! 
INT. AUDITORIUM ' STAGE ' NIGHT 
M.C. 
Miss Buffy Gilmore doing a dramatic 
reading. 
M.C. steps offstage. 
Buffy gathers herself, about to start, the audience is quiet. 
Buffy glances up to the balcony for one last reassuring smile from Greg. 
Page 46/94
Suddenly, through the glare of the lights, she sees the killer sneaking up behind Greg. 
BUFFY: 
Look out Greg! Look behind you! It's 
him! It's the killer! 
INT. AUDITORIUM ' BALCONY ' NIGHT 
Too late. The killer grabs Greg and begins his brutal attack. 
BUFFY: 
Oh my God! Somebody do something!  
He's killing him! 
The audience and judges murmuring and nodding. Their impressed. "She's good". No 
one realizes it's not a performance. 
BUFFY (CONT'D) 
You fucking bastards! Why won't 
anyone help?! Someone call an 
ambulance! Greg hold on! 
Buffy runs off stage. 
The audience gives her a standing ovation. 
M.C. 
What a wonderful reading, ladies and 
gentlemen! I think we have a winner, 
Ms. Buffy Gilmore! 
INT. AUDITORIUM ' BACKSTAGE ' NIGHT 
Buffy trying to get to Greg. She is stopped by one of the contestants. 
TANYA: 
You have to go back on stage! 
BUFFY: 
I have to get to Greg. 
TANYA: 
But you won! They're calling your 
name. 
BUFFY: 
I won? 
approaches. 
Page 47/94
CINDY: 
Buffy, what happened? What about Greg? 
BUFFY: 
Fuck Greg! I won! 
TANYA: 
Congratulations. 
BUFFY: 
Outta my way, loser. 
Buffy pushes the contestant out of her way and rushes back to the stage. 
INT. AUDITORIUM ' STAGE ' NIGHT 
The crowd applauds. Buffy waves. The former Miss Teen approaches with a bouquet of 
roses. 
BUFFY: 
Give me my crown bitch! 
Buffy snatches the crown off her head and places it on her own. 
All the contestants crowd around wishing Buffy congrats. 
TANYA: 
I guess you won. 
BUFFY: 
I guess you blew the wrong judge. 
MISS THANG: 
I'm so happy for you. 
BUFFY: 
No you're not. 
The M.C. starts to sing. 
M.C. 
There she is, Miss Teen 99' 
The audience applauds, tossing roses, and vases of roses. Buffy walks down the runway. Smash! Crash! Vases crash against her head. 
INT. AUDITORIUM ' BALCONY ' NIGHT - (LATER) 
BOBBY: 
Page 48/94
There's no sign of him anywhere. 
CINDY: 
He could have taken the body. 
BOBBY: 
Impossible. There's no blood.  
Nothing. 
Killer with bucket and mop, a plastic garbage bag with a foot sticking out. 
BUFFY: 
It's probably Greg pulling one of his 
dumb jokes. I'm sure he'll turn up.  
He's probably at my house waiting for 
me! 
BOBBY: 
Well, I'm gonna look around some more.  
Cind, you mind catching a ride with 
Buffy? 
CINDY: 
No problem. Call me later. Be careful. 
BOBBY: 
Don't worry. I will. 
INT. CINDY'S BATHROOM ' NIGHT 
Cindy sits at the edge of her bathtub, wearing only a towel.  She adds bubble bath to the 
running water. 
She lights candles, incense, and a menorah. 
She drops her towel and steps into the sudsy bath. She leans back and gives a deep sigh 
of relaxation. 
The phone rings, startling her. She eyes the phone anxiously. RING. She picks it up. 
CINDY: 
Hello? 
V.O. 
Hello Cindy. 
CINDY: 
Page 49/94
(alarmed) 
Who is this? 
V.O. 
It's me, Bobby. You know, 
your boyfriend? 
She sighs, then grabs a razor a leans back to shave her legs. 
CINDY: 
Sorry, guess I'm just a little jumpy.  
Any sign of Greg? 
V.O. BOBBY 
No. Do you want me to come by? 
She shaves her armpits. 
CINDY: 
No, I'm just going to take a bath, 
then go to sleep. 
She shaves her face. 
V.O. BOBBY 
O.K. Love you. 
CINDY: 
Love you too. 
She hangs up, then relaxes back into the tub, closing her eyes in tranquility. 
BLOOP! BLOOP! Two of Cindy's fart bubbles rise to the surface of the water. She 
sighs. 
She is in deep relaxation. A beat. 
Phone rings startling her again. 
CINDY (CONT'D) 
Bobby, I told you ' 
V.O. KILLER 
I know what you did on Halloween. 
Cindy stands straight up in terror at the recognition of the scary voice ' it's the same one 
from the first scene. 
The bubbles form a perfect two-piece bikini over her, including straps and a bow. 
Cindy slips on her nightgown and exits bathroom. INT. CINDY'S UPSTAIRS HALLWAY ' NIGHT 
CINDY: 
Page 50/94
Who is this? What do you want? 
V.O. KILLER 
To see your insides all over the floor. 
Cindy runs downstairs and locks front door. INT. CINDY'S LIVING ROOM ' NIGHT 
V.O. KILLER 
You're going to die tonight. 
Blaring horn sound. Cindy is crying, panicking. 
CINDY: 
Leave me alone. 
V.O. KILLER 
I'm going to cut' 
Suddenly, her call waiting goes off. 
CINDY: 
Um, hold on, I have another call. 
V.O. KILLER 
What..?! 
Cindy clicks over. 
CINDY: 
Hello? 
It's another teenager girl's voice on the other line. V.O. JILL 
Hey, Cindy, it's Jill. You remember that hot blue miniskirt on sale at the mall?  I bought it. 
CINDY: 
(quickly recovering) 
Get out' You are going to look so 
gorgeous! I bet Dave would ask you out 
if you wore that to school. 
V.O. JILL 
No way. He's such a major hotty. 
Cindy's phone beeps. 
CINDY: 
Oh my God, I totally forgot, I've got 
someone on the other line. I'll call you back. 
Cindy clicks over. 
CINDY (CONT'D) 
Page 51/94
Sorry about that. 
V.O. KILLER 
Do you think this is a game? I'm gonna 
gut you like a fish! 
Cindy's back to freaking out again, screaming, crying, running through the house. 
CINDY: 
I'm gonna call the police if you don't' 
Her phone beeps again. 
CINDY (CONT'D) 
Hold on. 
V.O. KILLER 
No, don't answer. My phone bill is 
already too high. 
CINDY: 
I'll just be a sec. 
She clicks over. Another teenage girl on the line. CINDY (CONT'D) 
Hello? 
V.O. KAREN 
Cindy, it's Karen, Did you get the 
notes in chemistry today? 
CINDY: 
(recovering, wiping the tears) 
Yeah, I'll give them to you tomorrow. 
Cindy's phone beeps. 
CINDY (CONT'D) 
I gotta run. 
She clicks back over. 
CINDY (CONT'D) 
Hello? 
V.O. OPERATOR 
Hi, this is the operator. I have a 
collect call from' Say your name, 
sir. 
V.O. KILLER 
Homicidal Maniac. 
V.O. OPERATOR 
Will you accept? 
CINDY: 
Page 52/94
Yes. 
V.O. OPERATOR 
Go ahead, sir. 
V.O. KILLER 
(to Cindy) 
Look you little bitch, you ever do 
that again and I'll rip your throat 
out. 
CINDY: 
My friend needed the notes. 
V.O. KILLER 
I don't give a shit. You made me 
lose my train of thought. 
CINDY: 
It was something about gutting me. 
V.O. KILLER 
Oh yeah, now I remember. I'm in the 
house. Do you know where I am? 
Cindy walks nervously through the house. She sees something. 
CINDY: 
Ah, you're behind the couch. 
KILLER: 
(surprised) 
What? How'd you know? 
CINDY: 
I see your feet. 
Close on Killer as he looks up. 
KILLER: 
Shit, wait a minute. 
He runs out of the room. 
V.O. KILLER 
No peeking! 
V.O. KILLER (CONT'D) 
Ok, now where am I? You don't know, 
do you? Heh, heh. 
Cindy rushes for the door, opens it. The Killer standing in front of her. 
Page 53/94
KILLER: 
Hello, Cindy. 
Killer swings his hook. Cindy ducks and runs. Killer gives chase. Cindy puts a move on him. He stumbles over furniture. 
Killer gets up. He starts to run and stumbles again. KILLER (CONT'D) 
(to himself) 
I gotta stop drinking. 
Cindy runs upstairs. Killer follows. 
INT. CINDY'S STAIRWELL ' NIGHT 
Cindy tosses a vase. It crashes against the killer's head.  He keeps coming. 
Cindy tosses a bicycle. The killer brushes it to the side and continues up the stairs. 
KILLER P.O.V. Cindy pushing a piano down the stairs. Killer turns and runs. Piano just misses. 
INT. CINDY'S UPSTAIRS HALLWAY ' NIGHT 
Cindy enters the closet, revealing JAMIE LEE CURTIS already hiding in the corner. 
JAMIE LEE: 
Hey bitch! I'm in here. 
Jamie shoves Cindy back into the hallway. 
NEW ANGLE ' HALLWAY 
Cindy and Jamie playing tug of war with the closet door. 
CINDY: 
Let me in! 
JAMIE LEE: 
Find your own! 
Killer appears at the top of the stairs. 
Cindy runs to her room and locks the door. 
Killer hacking away with his hook. 
INT. CINDY'S BEDROOM ' NIGHT 
Cindy quickly types on her computer. 
Screen: 
Operator: 
Screen: 
Page 54/94
Immediately we hear police sirens closing in. Cindy turns to the door. The chopping has stopped. She hears a noise at the window.  
Bobby climbing in. 
BOBBY: 
Cindy, you ok? I heard screaming. 
Cindy hugs Bobby. 
CINDY: 
He was here! 
BOBBY: 
It's okay. 
Cindy calms down for a moment then she notices something falling from Bobby's jacket. 
A cell phone drops to the floor. 
BOBBY (CONT'D) 
I can explain' 
Then a knife and bloody gloves. 
BOBBY (CONT'D) 
Uh'that too. 
Cindy takes off running. 
BOBBY (CONT'D) 
Cindy! Wait! Cindy! 
INT. CINDY'S FRONT DOOR ' NIGHT 
Cindy runs to the front door and opens it. The mask of the killer is covering someone's 
face. 
Cindy screams and attacks. 
VOICE: 
Cindy, It's me. 
Cindy sees it's Doofy. 
EXT. CINDY'S HOUSE ' NIGHT 
Bobby repeatedly being body slammed against the hood of a police car by Doofy. 
BOBBY: 
Help! Somebody get this moron off 
me! 
The sheriff arrives. 
DOOFY: 
Page 55/94
I got him sheriff! 
SHERIFF: 
It's okay, Doofy, I'll take it from 
here. 
DOOFY: 
I was the first to respond. 
SHERIFF: 
Whoopie for you, numb nuts. How's 
the girl? 
DOOFY: 
She's okay. 
Sheriff walks over to Cindy. 
SHERIFF: 
You okay to come down to the station? 
Cindy nods. 
DOOFY: 
I'll give you a ride. 
Doofy escorts Cindy past a real police car to his kiddie, pedal-operated police car. They 
climb in and ride off. Doofy makes a siren noise with his mouth. 
As they ride off, they pass an arriving news van. Van stops. Gail Hailstorm rushes out, calling for the camera man. 
GAIL: 
Kenny! Camera! Now! 
Gail tries to get a glimpse of Bobby as he is driven off. GAIL (CONT'D) 
Who is that? Is he a suspect? Is 
anyone dead? Sheriff, can I get a 
statement? 
Sheriff drives off. Gail, alone at the scene, sees Kenny approaching with a camera. 
Gail goes off with Kenny. 
GAIL (CONT'D) 
Kenny, I know you're about 50 pounds 
overweight, but when I say hurry, please 
Page 56/94
interpret that to mean move your lard 
sweating', bacon burpin' jello shakin' 
ass now!! 
INT. POLICE STATION BULLPEN ' NIGHT 
Bobby being led away. 
BOBBY: 
Cindy! Come on Cind! You know me! 
Cindy sits at a desk alone, visibly shaken. 
NEW ANGLE: 
A policeman talking to the sheriff about Cindy. 
SHERIFF: 
How's she doing? 
POLICEMAN #1 
She's a little shaken up but I 
think she's okay. 
SHERIFF: 
Okay, I'll take it from here. 
Sheriff walks over to Cindy. 
SHERIFF (CONT'D) 
I know you've had a rough night Cindy, so I'm not going to keep you. I just want 
you to look at some photo's and tell me 
what you think. 
Sheriff hands her a stack of photos. 
Close in on photos. They are pictures of the sheriff wearing a pair of speedos, striking 
several different poses. 
Cindy shakes her head no. 
SHERIFF (CONT'D) 
Okay, you're free to go. Do you have 
someone picking you up? 
CINDY: 
Yes. 
NEW ANGLE: 
Two young policemen talking. We see Doofy in the background. 
POLICEMAN #2 
Hey, guess what I just did to those 
Page 57/94
hookers we busted. 
POLICEMAN #1 
No way. 
POLICEMAN #2 
All the way. Watch this. Hey Doofy, come here. 
DOOFY: 
Yes. 
POLICEMAN #2 
Smell my finger. 
DOOFY: 
What's that? 
POLICEMAN #2 
That's when you'll know you've become a man. 
They laugh at Doofy. 
DOOFY: 
Hey, smell my finger. 
POLICEMAN #2 
What the hell is that? 
DOOFY: 
My ass. 
Buffy enters. 
BUFFY: 
Doofy, mom said get home now. 
DOOFY: 
Tell mom I'm on official police business. 
BUFFY: 
Hey, Cind, you okay? 
DOOFY: 
Hey, no talking to the witness. 
BUFFY: 
Go get in the car Doofy. She's coming with us. 
Page 58/94
DOOFY: 
Does mom know? 
BUFFY: 
Yeah, Doofus. 
DOOFY: 
Mom says when I wear this badge your 
supposed to treat me like a man of 
the law. 
BUFFY: 
Yeah, well mom also said for you to 
stop sticking your dick in the vacuum 
cleaner. Now let's go. 
Everyone in the police station laughs at Doofy. He looks embarrassed. 
Buffy and Cindy exit. Doofy follows. 
EXT. POLICE STATION ' NIGHT 
Gail Hailstorm arrives. Kenny hustles behind her. 
GAIL: 
Okay roll in 5, 4, 3' 
Kenny fumbles with the camera. Ho looks confused. GAIL (CONT'D) 
What now? Don't tell me you 
can't count. Let's see if I can 
make it easy for you. This little 
piggy went to market, this little 
piggy stayed home, this little 
piggy had roast beef, this little 
piggy had none,and if this little 
piggy doesn't roll the goddamn camera 
right now I'm gonna put my foot' 
KENNY: 
We're live. 
GAIL: 
Hi, Gail Hailstorm here in front of 
the police station where I'm going to 
try to get a glimpse of Cindy Campbell, 
the young woman who was attacked earlier 
Page 59/94
this evening. 
Gail and other reporters see Cindy exit the station. They rush her. 
REPORTER #1 
Cindy, can we get a statement? 
REPORTER #2 
Is it true the police have someone 
in custody? 
GAIL: 
Cindy, your ass looks fat. 
Cindy turns and punches Gail in the face. 
Doofy hustles Cindy into the car. She gets behind the wheel. Doofy throws his jacket 
across her head to shield her from the media rush. Doofy gets in. They drive off. 
O.C. We hear swerve, crash, crash. 
INT. BUFFY'S BEDROOM ' NIGHT 
Buffy and Cindy sit on the bed talking. 
BUFFY: 
Do you really think Bobby did it? 
CINDY: 
I don't know but he was there. 
BUFFY: 
I knew there had to be something. 
Doofy enters holding an ice pack. 
DOOFY: 
Here, a little something for your hand. 
He tosses the ice pack to Cindy, not having good aim or knowing his strength, the ice 
pack smacks her in the head, knocking her off the bed. DOOFY (CONT'D) 
Sorry. I better get something for 
your head. 
Cindy, dazed, climbs back on the bed. 
CINDY: 
That's okay Doofy. 
DOOFY: 
Page 60/94
I'll be in the next room if you 
need me. 
CINDY: 
Thanks. Good night Doofy. 
Doofy exits. 
Buffy opens a bag of doughnuts, starts snacking. She hands one to Cindy. 
CINDY: 
Say, I didn't know you ate stuff 
like that. 
BUFFY: 
(excited) 
Oh, I'm on this new diet. I can eat 
all the junk food I want and not 
gain a pound! 
CINDY: 
Really?! 
Barf, Barf. Buffy throws up the doughnuts. 
BUFFY: 
Want some pizza? 
Buffy's mom enters. 
MRS. GILMORE 
Cindy, telephone. 
CINDY: 
Who is it? 
MRS. GILMORE 
I'm just guessing but I'd say a 
psychotic killer. 
Cindy exits to answer the phone. 
INT. BUFFY'S HALLWAY ' NIGHT (PHONE) 
CINDY: 
Hello? 
V.O. KILLER 
Hello, Cindy. Poor Bobby boy. An 
innocent guy doesn't stand a chance with 
you. 
Page 61/94
CINDY: 
No! 
Buffy and Mrs. Gilmore run to Cindy. 
MRS. GILMORE 
Doofy! Doofy! 
CINDY: 
Who are you? 
V.O. KILLER 
You'll find out soon enough. 
Cindy drops the phone. 
Doofy comes running, carrying the vacuum cleaner hose. 
DOOFY: 
What? 
The girls go into the bedroom. Doofy picks up the phone. DOOFY (CONT'D) 
Hello? 
INT. HIGH SCHOOL CAFETERIA ' FOODLINE ' DAY 
Cindy enters, grabs a tray and gets in line. Cindy looks at menu. It reads "Same Old Shit". PAN ACROSS FACES OF SEVERAL CAFETERIA LADIES SCOOPING IN 
MUSH: 
ON TO THE PLATES. EACH WORKER GETS PROGRESSIVELY UGLIER.  
THE: 
LAST IS A SEA CREATURE IN A UNIFORM AND HAIR NET. Cindy joins Ray, Brandy & Shorty. 
CINDY: 
Hey guys. 
BRANDY: 
How you doin' girl? 
CINDY: 
Ok. He got Buffy. 
SHORTY: 
What?! She's dead too? 
CINDY: 
No, she's fine, just a little 
Page 62/94
bent out of shape. 
RAY: 
We gotta get this guy. 
CINDY: 
I think we should all just stick  
together. After school, everyone grab 
some stuff, meet at my house and invite 
 some friends too. There is safety in  
numbers. Anyone seen Bobby? 
RAY: 
I heard he was let out this morning. 
CINDY: 
If you see him, tell him I'm sorry.  
I'll see you guys tonight. 
Kid dressed in killer's outfit runs through the cafeteria, screaming and waving his arms 
wildly. 
CINDY (CONT'D) 
(annoyed) 
Why are they doing this? 
She rushes from the table. 
NEW ANGLE: 
Cindy bumps into someone. 
CINDY (CONT'D) 
Oh my' 
It's Bobby. 
BOBBY: 
It's okay. It's just me. 
Cindy pulls away. 
BOBBY (CONT'D) 
Whoa, whoa, wait. You don't still 
think it's me?! 
Cindy pats him down for weapons. 
CINDY: 
No, no, not at all. It's just that 
someone did try to kill me. 
Page 63/94
BOBBY: 
The police said I scared him away. 
CINDY: 
I know. He called last night. 
BOBBY: 
See? It couldn't have been me.  
I was in jail, remember? 
Bobby shows Cindy a tattoo on his butt cheek. It reads "Hank's stuff". 
CINDY: 
I'm sorry. Please understand. 
BOBBY: 
What? My girl would rather call 
me a killer then touch me? 
CINDY: 
That's not true. 
BOBBY: 
Then what is it? 
CINDY: 
What is it? Bobby, she's gone and 
she's not coming back. 
BOBBY: 
It's been a year Cindy. 
CINDY: 
But Ginger was such an important part 
of the Spice Girls. 
BOBBY: 
You have to move on, Cind. 
CINDY: 
I'm sorry if my complicated life is an 
inconvenience to your perfect existence. 
Cindy runs away. 
Page 64/94
BOBBY: 
Stupid. 
EXT. HIGH SCHOOL ' DAY 
Sheriff makes an announcement. 
SHERIFF: 
Let me just say the killings of these 
teenagers have been tragic but with 
every cloud there is a silver lining.  
Thanks to all the press, tourism is at 
an all time high. Any of you folks 
visiting, I'll be selling souvenir 
t-shirts right after the conference. 
Sheriff holds up a t-shirt that reads: "I could be next Woodsboro 99" 
SHERIFF (CONT'D) 
Only fifteen bucks each. Get one 
for the whole family. 
Gail calls out to the sheriff. 
GAIL: 
Sheriff..Hi, Gail Hailstorm, author of 
101 Ways to Milk a Tragedy. Sheriff, 
let me ask you, do you think the killer 
will strike again? 
SHERIFF: 
We have no evidence of that. This is 
just a precaution. 
GAIL: 
Have you located Cindy Campbell's father? 
SHERIFF: 
No. 
GAIL: 
Is he a suspect? 
SHERIFF: 
That's classified. Where are you 
getting your information? 
GAIL: 
Page 65/94
My source is strictly confidential. 
Doofy steps up to the mic. 
DOOFY: 
Hey, anybody wanna smell my finger? 
INT. GIRLS LOCKER ROOM ' DAY 
Several girls changing clothes, heading to the showers. INT. GIRLS SHOWERS ' DAY 
Camera pans across the naked backs of Buffy and her friends taking a shower. They 
gossip about the past nights events. 
BUFFY: 
Can you believe it? There's a killer 
out there. 
Several tattoos on Buffy's back. All hearts with guys names 
crossed out: 
Phil, Steve, last heart reads "Your Name Here." GIRL #2 
Yeah, I heard he's really cute! 
Girl #2: 
GIRL #3 
Is it true he almost got Cindy? 
Girl #3 tatoo above her ass reads: "Exit Only". 
BUFFY: 
I don't believe her. 
Girls finish their shower, grab towels, and continue conversation. 
BUFFY (CONT'D) 
I think she's just trying to get 
attention. Just a case of virginal 
delusions. 
A girl passes them, built like a playmate centerfold. The girls look at themselves 
insecurely. 
BUFFY (CONT'D) 
That Tammy. She's been left back 
so many times it ain't funny. 
INT. GIRL'S LOCKER ROOM ' DAY 
We pick up our girls at the lockers. They see Cindy getting dressed. 
Page 66/94
BUFFY: 
Watch this. 
She takes a cell phone from her locker and pretends that she a call. 
BUFFY (CONT'D) 
Hello, who is this? What? You 
want to kill me? Hold on' Cindy, 
it's for you. 
All the girls laugh. Cindy tries to ignore them. The laughter is interrupted by the Gym teacher. MISS MANN, a tall muscular woman with a five o'clock shadow and a bulge under her 
skirt that she constantly adjusts. 
MISS MANN: 
Alright, knock it off Buffy. Now 
as all have heard, there is a killer 
in our town and the police have asked 
us to give you all the following 
safety tips. Stay in well lit areas, do 
not travel alone whenever possible and 
don't accept rides from anyone you don't 
know. I understand this is a difficult 
time for you young ladies, so if anyone 
wants to come to my office to talk, 
I'm here for you. 
Miss Mann exits. 
BUFFY: 
What a crock of shit. 
CINDY: 
It's not! He's out there! I'm 
telling you he's real! 
BUFFY: 
Oh right, cause you saw him. Sure.  
What are you gonna come up with next?  
Let me guess..The faculty are really 
aliens? 
They all laugh. 
Cindy grabs her books and exits. 
INT. MISS MANN'S OFFICE ' DAY 
Page 67/94
Start on photos on the wall. 
Includes Miss Mann with k.d.lang. 
Pan down we see Miss Mann sniffing a pair of women's panties. 
CINDY: 
Miss Mann? 
Miss Mann startled, hides the panties. 
MISS MANN: 
Come right in, dear. Have a seat. Take 
off your bra if you like. 
Cindy sits. She can see Miss Mann's bulge. She tries to avoid looking at it. 
MISS MANN (CONT'D) 
What can I do for you dear? 
CINDY: 
I need to talk. 
MISS MANN: 
Go ahead, my dear. 
CINDY: 
Well, you see, I have this problem and 
I don't know who to tell. This is 
really hard. 
Miss Mann touches her hand, gives her a reassuring smile. 
MISS MANN: 
Not feeling so fresh? 
CINDY: 
Huh? 
MISS MANN: 
Feminine odor and itching got you down? 
CINDY: 
No, not that. 
MISS MANN: 
Oh. 
Page 68/94
CINDY: 
I have a terrible secret. 
Miss Mann sits back. 
MISS MANN: 
I see. Well, Cindy, we all 
have our little secrets. 
Miss Mann spreads her legs. We see a set of testicles fall out from under her skirt. 
Cindy tries not to react. 
Miss Mann walks around the room. As she speaks, her balls swing as they dangle in the 
air. 
MISS MANN (CONT'D) 
Sometimes we do things we're not proud 
of. 
MISS MANN (CONT'D) 
Some for money, others to gain an 
athletic edge against the competition. 
Miss Mann walks over to Cindy, places her hand on one shoulder and accidentally rests 
her balls on Cindy's other shoulder. 
MISS MANN (CONT'D) 
Sometimes those little secrets come back 
to haunt us in the most unpredictable  
ways. You know what I mean? 
Cindy jumps up. 
CINDY: 
Yes I do. Thanks for your time.  
I gotta go to class. 
MISS MANN: 
Anytime, dear. 
Cindy hustles out of the office. 
 INT. GIRLS LOCKER ROOM ' DAY 
All the girls have left but Buffy, who grabs her books and closes her locker. 
She hears a noise. She goes to investigate. No one there. Buffy turns. She sees The Killer. 
BUFFY: 
Very funny. But you better get out 
of here before Miss Mann sees you. 
Page 69/94
Buffy tries to walk away. Killer blocks her path. BUFFY (CONT'D) 
(sarcastically) 
Oh, so what movie is this from, "Die 
Cheerleaders Die"? So wanna play 
psycho killer? 
The Killer nods yes. 
BUFFY (CONT'D) 
Can I be the helpless cheerleader?  
Let's see' 
(pretend pleading) 
Please don't kill me, mister killer' 
The Killer grabs her arm. 
NOTE: 
whole scene. 
BUFFY (CONT'D) 
Oh, is this the part where I beg 
for my life? 
Killer nods yes. 
BUFFY (CONT'D) 
Oh, please mister killer, don't kill me! 
Killer slashes her with his knife. 
BUFFY (CONT'D) 
Oh is this where I'm supposed to bleed?  
Oh, look, I'm bleeding. EEK! EEK! Oh 
yeah, I'm supposed to run, right? Ha ha, 
okay, if it makes you happy. 
She runs half heartily, waving her arms in comical mock fright. 
BUFFY (CONT'D) 
I'm running, I'm running. Help! Now 
here is where I fall and break my leg, 
leaving me helpless. 
She sighs, like she's indulging him. She trips and twists her leg grotesquely. We hear a 
loud snap. 
BUFFY (CONT'D) 
There ya go, mister scary killer. I'm 
panicking now. God, somebody please 
help me! 
Killer gets down and viciously attacks. We hear flesh tearing and ripping as blood sprays 
everywhere. 
Page 70/94
BUFFY (CONT'D) 
So, I suppose this is where my guts 
get ripped open? Whatever' 
Killer raises a meat clever the final blow. He lifts her severed head. 
She rolls her eyes. 
BUFFY (CONT'D) 
Oh, look at me. I'm all dead. 
BUFFY (CONT'D) 
I'm a gross scary severed head. Come on, 
Pul-leeze! 
EXT. HIGH SCHOOL ' DAY 
The ledge outside one of the school windows on the third floor. Phil crawls out on the 
ledge, looking disheveled. Another faculty member pokes his head out the window. 
FACULTY MEMBER: 
Phil! What are you doing?! Come 
back in here! 
PHIL: 
No, I've had it! I can't take 
this job and these stupid kids 
anymore! I'm going to end it all! 
FACULTY MEMBER: 
Be reasonable. 
PHIL: 
There's nothing for me to live 
for. I'm jumping. 
FACULTY MEMBER: 
Wait! Just hold on, we're getting help. 
BRANDY: 
The killer's just fucking with us. 
RAY: 
I don't get it. Why? 
CINDY: 
What does he want with us? 
Page 71/94
Upset, Cindy steps away from the group, looking up (but not in the direction of the 
school) arms out, shouting: 
CINDY (CONT'D) 
What are you waiting for, huh? 
Phil on the ledge, breathing hard, sweating. He hears Cindy yelling again, louder this 
time. 
CINDY (O.S.)(CONT'D) 
What are you waiting for?! 
PHIL: 
She's right. What am I waiting for? 
With a shout, he jumps to his death. 
Phil lands near them'SPLAT. They all surround him. Shorty stands over him. 
SHORTY: 
Yo, kid. You got that ill chronic. 
I told you that shit would make 
you fly. 
INT. RAY'S BEDROOM ' DAY 
Ray and Brandy sitting on his bed, sharing fruit. Ray is wearing shorts and a tank top. 
Music plays in the background. 
Brandy is wearing Ray's football jersey. 
BRANDY: 
Ray, I don't think this party is 
a good idea. What if Shorty is 
right? 
RAY: 
Promise. 
He gives her a reassuring kiss. 
The song "Same Ho" by Snoop Dog is playing on the radio. SONG V.O. 
Every where I go, I see the same ho, 
in every video, I see the same hooo' 
BRANDY: 
Hey, that's my song. You know they 
gave me a shout out on the album. 
Brandy starts to dance for Ray. 
Page 72/94
RAY: 
You know, you look really sexy in 
my jersey. 
Brandy stands up and begins to model the jersey. 
BRANDY: 
You think so? 
RAY: 
Yeah, put these on with it. 
He hands her the football pants. 
RAY (CONT'D) 
And these too. 
He hands her a pair of cleats. 
BRANDY: 
You sure? 
RAY: 
Yeah, and this too. 
He gives her his shoulder pads. 
RAY (CONT'D) 
Yeah, that's hot. Wait. One more 
thing. 
He puts a helmet on her head. 
RAY (CONT'D) 
That's what I'm talkin' about. Come 
here, you sexy thing you. 
Ray grabs her and starts making passionate love to her. EXT. MOVIE THEATRE ' NIGHT 
Ray and Brandy walk to the box office to get tickets. 
BRANDY: 
I don't know why we got to go 
see this movie. They just insult 
my intelligence. 
RAY: 
What are you talking about? You 
just got your GED. 
BRANDY: 
All I know is these movies is about 
Page 73/94
white people doing white things in 
white places. There ain't never 
no black people in them. 
RAY: 
That's cuz it's Shakespeare. 
Reveal they are going to see "Shakespeare in Love". 
BRANDY: 
Whatever. Why can't we go see a 
horror movie or something? 
RAY: 
Look, why don't you just chill 
and try to have a good time. 
BRANDY: 
Alright. I'm sorry. I do appreciate 
you takin' me out. 
They enter the theatre. 
INT. MOVIE THEATRE ' CONCESSION AREA ' NIGHT 
RAY: 
Look, why don't you go get some 
seats? I'm gonna get some refreshments. 
Ray stands in line at the concession stand. Brandy enters the screening room. 
INT. MOVIE THEATRE ' NIGHT 
Ray enters, looking for Brandy. 
Brandy calls for Ray. 
BRANDY: 
Ray! Hey Ray-Ray! Down here! 
She waves wildly, screaming Ray's name. 
Note: 
theatre. 
Ray walks to Brandy, takes a seat. 
RAY: 
You want some popcorn? 
BRANDY: 
I brought my own food. 
Page 74/94
Brandy reaches into her purse, pulls out a full course meal.  Fried chicken, potato salad, 
greens, and a large bottle of hot sauce. 
Screen: 
Brandy immediately starts yelling at the screen. BRANDY (CONT'D) 
Ooo, yeah, do that shit! 
Screen: 
BRANDY (CONT'D) 
This sound system is the bomb. I need 
one of these in my car. 
White patrons, shaking their heads. It's gonna be a long night. 
Ray is embarrassed by Brandy's behavior. He excuses himself. 
RAY: 
Watch my seat. I have to go to the 
bathroom. 
INT. MOVIE THEATRE ' BATHROOM ' NIGHT 
A guy stands in front of a condom dispenser and chooses from 
the selection: 
Sensitive", "For Her Pleasure", "Can't Feel Shit", and "You're a Daddy". 
Another guy washes his hands at the sink, then turns to pull down the rotating towels and 
it's a pair of pants that go in a circle. 
Enter Ray. He waits for a free urinal, but they're all occupied by guys pissing at a target 
in the bowl. As they pee on the bulls-eye, toy horses race across a track on the wall like a 
carnival game. The guys look straight ahead. 
Ray tries to find a stall. 
He checks under other doors. He sees a pair of tennis shoes, cleats, clogs, ballerina shoes 
up on their toes, and the ugliest pair of men's feet with freshly painted red toenails with 
the toe separators still in them. 
Finally, he looks under a door and doesn't see any feet.  Ray opens the door. 
Reveal a LITTLE PERSON sitting on the toilet. 
Page 75/94
LITTLE PERSON: 
Hey, I'm in here. 
RAY: 
My bad. 
The handicap stall opens. A guy in a wheelchair rolls out.  The guy in the wheelchair 
looks around, stands up, folds up the chair, picks it up and walks out. 
Ray shakes his head in disbelief, then enters the handicap stall. 
Ray finishes, zips his pants, turns to exit. 
Ray starts to leave when he hears voices coming from the adjacent stall. 
Ray presses his ear against the stall wall. 
Traces the sound to a small hole in the stall wall. Ray presses his ear against the hole. A penis pokes through tickling his ear. Ray 
chuckles and presses his head closer. 
This time the penis thrusts through his ear. 
Ray grabs his ear in pain. Goo flows out of his mouth. He falls to the floor. 
INT. MOVIE THEATRE ' NIGHT 
Brandy sits alone, eating and yelling at the screen. 
BRANDY: 
Don't go in there! 
Screen: 
reaches the top. He and the 
lady's nurse see each other. They scream. So does Brandy. 
BRANDY: 
This is some scary shit! Run, 
Shakespeare, run! 
Man next to her leans over. 
MAN: 
Will you keep it down!? 
BRANDY: 
Excuse me! I paid my money like 
everyone else. 
Page 76/94
Screen: 
BRANDY (CONT'D) 
That ain't no man! 
Brandy takes out a laser pointer. 
BRANDY (CONT'D) 
You can see her real hair under 
that wig. Look right there! 
People around her are getting really annoyed. 
WOMAN: 
Do you mind? 
Brandy starts video taping the movie. The killer sits down next to her. She doesn't notice. 
BRANDY: 
Hey Ray, you came back just in time.  
Yeah, this movie is good. 
BRANDY (CONT'D) 
She's about to get it on with Shake-a-spear; 
he found out she's a girl. This is just like an episode of Jerry Springer. 
Screen: 
BRANDY (CONT'D) 
Aw, shit. The fightin'! Jerry!  
Jerry! Jerry! 
The audience is furious. 
OLD LADY: 
Shut up! 
MAN: 
For Christ's sake, shut your trap! 
Brandy's cell phone rings. She answers. 
BRANDY: 
I don't know why y'all trippin'. My 
girlfriend saw the movie and she said 
they don't even stay together in the end. 
That's it. The audience has had enough. 
The Man sitting next to her suddenly reaches over and stabs her in the stomach, then goes back to watching the movie. Brandy stands up, stunned and horrified. She 
Page 77/94
screams. 
Then the Woman sitting behind her reaches over and stabs her in the back, then also goes 
back to watching the movie. Man #2 reaches over, guts her, and then continues to watch 
the movie. The Old Woman reaches over and cuts Brandy's throat. Brandy tries to 
escape, but all the people in the theatre start stabbing, slicing and gutting her as she runs 
by them ' all normal looking people: an old couple, a teenager, middle class couple, a 
priest, etc. The Killer never has to touch her. Crying and bloody, Brandy stumbles toward the movie screen, still getting stabbed by 
everyone. She stands up in front of the screen, looks out at all the pissed off faces in the 
audience and drops to the ground, dead. 
The audience erupts in wild cheers and applause.  EXT. CINDY'S HOUSE ' NIGHT 
Party in progress. Several cars arrive, music blasting from inside. 
INT. CINDY'S LIVING ROOM ' NIGHT 
Kids watch "Halloween H2O". 
SHORTY: 
Here it comes..SPLAT! 
JILL: 
How can you watch this over and 
over? 
SHORTY: 
It's great promotion for Miramax. 
TEEN: 
When does LL get killed? 
SHORTY: 
He doesn't. LL Cool J is one of 
the only black guys to survive a 
horror movie. Him and Duane Martin 
from Scream 2. That's because they 
followed the rules. 
Page 78/94
JILL: 
What are you talking about? 
SHORTY: 
There are certain rules a black 
person must follow in order to 
survive a horror movie. 
JILL: 
Where's Brandy? 
SHORTY: 
Probably dead. The sassy black best 
friend of a white virgin is always 
sacrificed first. It's like being the 
black guy with the red shirt in the Star 
Trek landing party when Kirk says 
"Johnson, go check it out". You know 
he ain't coming back. 
Kids boo and throw popcorn at Shorty. 
JILL: 
I'm going to the kitchen. Anybody 
want anything? 
TEEN: 
More popcorn. 
Everyone laughs. She exits. 
INT. CINDY'S KITCHEN ' NIGHT 
Cindy is preparing chips and dip. Jill enters. 
JILL: 
Can I help with anything? 
CINDY: 
Sure, can you get some more beers 
out of the fridge in the garage? 
JILL: 
Sure. 
INT. CINDY'S GARAGE ' NIGHT 
Jill enters, turns on the lights, makes her way to the fridge. 
She is startled by a cat. 
Page 79/94
JILL: 
Oh, kitty, you scared me. 
The cat runs out the doggie door that's cut into the garage door. 
Jill turns again. She is startled. This time by a horse. JILL (CONT'D) 
Oh horsey! You scared me too! 
Finally at the fridge, she grabs a few drinks. INSERT OF FRIDGE 
Beer bottle labels: Cult 45, Satan Malt Liquor, Killer Genuine Draft. 
NEW ANGLE ' GARAGE 
The door slowly closes. 
Suddenly the lights go out. 
JILL (CONT'D) 
Who's there? Hello? Is anyone there? 
Jill walking in the dark constantly talking. 
JILL (CONT'D) 
How tall are you? What's your sign? Do 
you speak more than one language? 
The lights back on. The killer is standing at the top of the steps. Knife is drawn. 
JILL (CONT'D) 
Oh my God! Please don't! I'm just 
a day player! 
Killer swings with knife. Misses. 
Jill drops the bottles, starts to run. Killer chases. She swings open the refrigerator door, 
smashing him in the face. 
Killer falls. She runs for the door. 
Killer cuts her off. She picks up a bottle and throws it at the killer, smashing him in the 
face. He stumbles back. 
This is her chance. She runs to the doggie door. The killer watches in disbelief as Jill tries to stuff her body through the doggie door. 
EXT. CINDY'S GARAGE ' DOGGIE DOOR ' NIGHT 
Jill tries pushing head through. It takes up the whole door. Finally it pops through. 
INT. CINDY'S GARAGE ' DOGGIE DOOR ' NIGHT 
Jill's ass and feet struggling to get thru the small door.  Won't fit. Turns around and tries 
to go feet first. 
Page 80/94


What Women Want Script

 

                   

Do you know

the expression ''a man's man'' ?



 

                   

A man's man

is the leader of the pack.



 

                   

The kind of man other men

look up to, admire and emulate.



 

                   

A man's man

is the kind of man who...



 

                   

just doesn 't get

what women are about.



 

                   

Nick, my ex-husband,

is the ultimate man's man.



 

                   

l probably never

should have married him.



 

                   

l don't think he understood

a thing about me.



 

                   

So, this is Nick Marshall's offiice.

Wanna peek ?



  

                   

Don't Worry.

He never gets in before   :  .



  

                   

He'll send you on more errands than

anyone in the entire company...



  

                   

'cause he can't do

anything for himself.



  

                   

He's the least politically

correct guy in the universe.



  

                   

He's the king of all

the T & A ads "We do".



  

                   

You want babes in bikinis ?

He's your man.



  

                   

My dad ? How can l

best describe him ?



  

                   

He's always been...

like an uncle to me.



  

                   

Yeah, Uncle Dad.



  

                   

Although,

Nick was a charmer.



  

                   

Completely irresistible

at first,



  

                   

Which feeds into

the whole ''man's man'' thing.



  

                   

You know about

Nick's mother, right ?



  

                   

Because once you understand

about Nick's mother,



  

                   

you understand Nick.



  

                   

Nick was actually

born and raised in Las Vegas.



  

                   

Nick's mother was a real,

honest-to-God Las Vegas showgirl.



  

                   

When other boys were outside

riding their bikes and playing ball,



  

                   

Nick was backstage

hanging with the girls.



  

                   

He was their mascot,

their little pet.



  

                   

They couldn 't get enough

of those baby blues.



  

                   

- Bang ! Bang !



  

                   

lf you ask me, l'd say Nick's

mother just about killed it...



  

                   

for every woman

Nick would ever meet.



  

                   

She had a lot of sugar daddies

in her life,



  

                   

but only one true love--



  

                   

the boy

with the family jewels.



  

                   

           .

Let me see that, kid.



  

                   

And since Nick

didn 't have a father,



  

                   

his mom made sure he was always

surrounded by strong role models.



  

                   

- Come here, huh ?



  

                   

- Men her boy could look up to.

- Now you're ready, huh ?



  

                   

Keep countin', kid.



  

                   

There was nothing normal about

the way Nick Marshall was raised.



  

                   

So, what can you expect ?



  

                   

You don't have to be Freud

to figure out...



  

                   

this was one cockeyed way

to enter the world.



  

                   

oh !



  

                   

Don't you ever knock ?



  

                   

lt's almost   :  . You gotta go

to work, and l gotta vacuum in here.



  

                   

And don't forget-- Another one

who wears vanilla perfume.



  

                   

Don't you know any women

who don't want to smell like candy ?



  

                   

- Toss me my lighter, babe ?

- Babe ?



  

                   

What am l,

a little pig ?



  

                   

l don't have time

to make you no onion bagel,



  

                   

so please do not start

to beg, okay ?



  

                   

And for the record, l don't like

finding these things in your sofa.



  

                   

What kind of woman

wears underwear like this ?



  

                   

Hey, my mother wore

underwear like that.



  

                   

Just put them some where,

Will you, babe ?



  

                   

Well, ''babe'' is gonna put it

in the trash where it belongs.



  

                   

- So, your mother should excuse me.



  

                   

Did you ever consider dating

a woman who wears real underwear?



  

                   

The kind that covers the entire

bottom the way it's supposed to ?



  

                   

- No. But if l do, should l call ?

- Oh !



  

                   

l'm gonna go clean

the kitchen.



  

                   

You couldn't toast me

a little bagel, could you ?



  

                   

Light cream cheese, tomatoes.

Capers if we have any.



  

                   

Please! Come on.

 lcan't think on an empty stomach.



  

                   

Okay. All right. But only because

you didn 't callme that pig name.



  

                   

Okay, you got it, babe.



  

                   

Mr. Marshall,

how are you doing today ?



  

                   

- l'm fit as a dancing bear.

- l'll get that cab for you.



  

                   

- That's some set of pipes you got.



  

                   

- You have an excellent day, sir.

- And you.



  

                   

At ease.



  

                   

- Oh, oh, l'm so sorry !



  

                   

l absolutely

did not mean to do that.



  

                   

- Here. Let me get that for you.

- lt's okay.



  

                   

No, l'm mortifiied.

l can see your hands are full.



  

                   

- Thank you.

- Sorry. Let me get the door.



  

                   

- Thank you.

- Thank you.



  

                   

Half cup, grande, non fat,

thick foam, wet cap, no lid.



  

                   

''Half caff,'' grande, non fat,

thick foam, wet cap, no lid.



  

                   

- So, when do you find out ?

- Um, today, l think.



  

                   

Unless l didn't get it, and then

l will just never find out.



  

                   

l'm sure l didn't get it. They were

looking for an ''earth mother'' type.



  

                   

l overheard the director

say l was more space cadet.



  

                   

l'm an actress.

l can be whatever you want.



  

                   

- ls that true, can you ?

- Oh, better be true.



  

                   

otherwise, l'm stuck playing ditsy

coffee girl the rest of my life.



  

                   

Thank you.

Hon ? Thanks.



  

                   

oh ! Hi, Nick. Hi.



  

                   

oh, Lola, my love. When are you

gonna let me buy you dinner ?



  

                   

Nick, l don't know why you don't

believe me. l'm not your type.



  

                   

Trust me on this one. Cappuccino,

extra foam. Tall or grande ?



  

                   

Grande. or at least

l like to think so.



  

                   

- Next.

- You know, rumor has it...



  

                   

l'm getting some really

big news at work today.



  

                   

At least come out with me.

Celebrate. l'll buy you a coffee.



   

                   

Memo to you:

l work in a coffee shop.



   

                   

Hi. What can l get you ?



   

                   

- Hi. l'll take--

- Want me to stop asking you out ?



   

                   

Sorry. This will

just take a sec.



   

                   

Because, Lola,

give me the word and l'll stop.



   

                   

Yes, l'm gonna give you the word

because l'm an actress.



   

                   

or at least l'm trying to be one.

l'm trying to concentrate on that.



   

                   

So, you know, it would be

a good thing, if you wouldn't mind,



   

                   

to stop asking me out !



   

                   

Honey, you seem

so stressed.



   

                   

l am stressed.

l have a lot on my plate.



   

                   

So, let's not talk

about this now.



   

                   

Why don't l meet you here,

say, tomorrow ?   :   ?   :   ?



   

                   

- okay, that would be good.

- So, that's a date ?



   

                   

lt's a date.

Thank you.



   

                   

Sir,

that was inspiring.



   

                   

l know.



   

                   

Good morning, Sloane-Curtis.



   

                   

- Good morning, Mr. Marshall.

- Hi, honey.



   

                   

- What's the dirt ?

- l was at breakfast this morning--



   

                   

- Hey, Norm ! You winning ?

-Of course.



   

                   

l heard Miller's shopping around,

looking for a new agency.



   

                   

Miller Lite. l know.

l'm all over it.



   

                   

Also, l heard Darcy McGuire left

B.B.D. & O. Good morning, Angela.



   

                   

-You're kidding. Left or was fired ?

-l don't know.



   

                   

Everyone there

is thrilled to get rid of her.



   

                   

Well, so much for

edgy female vision.



   

                   

So, that girl we met

last night at the club,



   

                   

nothing happened after

you put her in the cab, right ?



   

                   

lt did ?

Something happened ?



   

                   

But she said she had to

be in bed early.



   

                   

l had her in bed by    :  .

or was it quarter to ?



   

                   

You-- You're like a genius,

you know that ?



   

                   

What can l tell you, buddy ? l'm

blessed. And today is my lucky day.



   

                   

Not only is my ex-wife re marrying--

right now, as a matter of fact--



   

                   

but Wanamaker called me himself,

wanted to see me first thing.



   

                   

- Called twice to confirm.

- Call me when he makes it official.



   

                   

lt's not gonna be as easy to suck up

to ''creative director,'' you know.



   

                   

Not to worry. l'll make us a lunch

rez at the Drake to celebrate.



   

                   

Don't count your chickens,

huh ?  :   ?



   

                   

Pick you up.



   

                   

Can l borrow this ?



   

                   

- Hey, Dina.

- Hi.



   

                   

Do you know the difference

between awife and a job ?



   

                   

- What is it ?

- After ten years, job still sucks.



   

                   

- That's a good one, huh ?



   

                   

l wouldn't do that if l were you.

That's not a good idea, no.



   

                   

- oh, Mr. Marshall, hi.

- Hey.



   

                   

l put the story boards on your desk.

Picked up your shoes from Barney's.



   

                   

Got your glasses fiixed.

There was no charge.



   

                   

This morning's staff meeting

was cancelled.



   

                   

And l got your cigarettes.

They're next to your laptop.



   

                   

This morning's staff meeting

was cancelled.



   

                   

- That's what l was told.

- Hmm.



   

                   

Good morning, girls.



   

                   

Good afternoon, sire.



   

                   

Hey, anybody know why

the staff meeting was cancelled ?



   

                   

Nobody called us.



   

                   

oh, but Mr. Wanamaker wants

to see you as soon as you get in,



   

                   

- l know.

- You couldn't show up on time ?



   

                   

You know you're being promoted.

But you look very sharp, by the way.



   

                   

- Thank you.

- Like a creative director.



   

                   

- Very distinguished.



   

                   

You able to handle yourselves

on the   th floor ? Be truthful.



   

                   

Are you kidding ?

We were made for the   th floor.



   

                   

Now, get up there already,

so we can break out the bubbly.



   

                   

- Don't wait up.

- Don't Wait up.



   

                   

- He's so adorable.

- He says the cutest things.



   

                   

Boy.



   

                   

Sorry, buddy. l was in the board

meeting that would never end.



   

                   

- Have you been here long ?

- A couple minutes. That's all.



   

                   

Jess, can l get a cup of decaf

and a couple Tylenol?



   

                   

And see if we got any Echinacea.

And l need some club soda.



   

                   

l got something on my tie.

Know what ? Just get me another tie.



   

                   

l saw the mock-ups you did for

Johnny Walker. They're fantastic.



   

                   

oh, that's my job, Dan.



   

                   

So, you know I'm not great

at making speeches,



   

                   

especially when l haven't

got you to write them for me.



   

                   

So, l'll do my best. l've been

in this racket over    years.



   

                   

Let me tell you something,

it doesn't get any easier.



   

                   

As a matter of fact,

it gets harder and harder.



   

                   

The '  s

Were our glory days.



   

                   

They were all about

alcoohol, tobacco and cars.



   

                   

l felt like

l was on top of my game.



   

                   

And then in the '  s, men stopped

dominating how dollars were spent,



   

                   

and we lost our compass.



   

                   

Women between    and    are

the fastest-growing consumer group.



   

                   

Girls who were born in the mid-'  s

control our advertising dollars.



   

                   

Sorry. No Echinacea.

Hi, Nick.



   

                   

- Hey.

- Red or lavender?



   

                   

Red. No, no, lavender.

That's good.



   

                   

Lavender's good. While we've been

shooting beer commercials...



   

                   

With the Swedish bikini team,

the industry has been transformed.



   

                   

We were the agency in town

ten years ago.



   

                   

Now we're struggling

to be third.



   

                   

lf we don't evolve and think

beyond our natural ability,



   

                   

We're gonna go down.



   

                   

''Think beyond our natural--''

l'm not quite clear what you mean.



   

                   

What do you know

about Darcy McGuire ?



   

                   

Oh, hey, l heard on the whisper

she just left B.B.D. & O.



   

                   

l never met the woman, but

l hear she's a real man-eater.



   

                   

She won that Cleo last year we

should have won for the ad about--



   

                   

oh, yeah, right.

That was her ? l forgot about that.



   

                   

Yeah, l wish l had. Oh, boy, l hear

she is a bitch on wheels.



   

                   

- That's very funny.

- Yeah, why ?



   

                   

'Cause l just hired her.



   

                   

To do what ?



   

                   

You know l love you, Nick,

but it's a woman's world out there.



   

                   

Getting into a women's psyche

is not exactly your strong suit.



   

                   

You can get into their pants

better than anybody on Earth,



   

                   

but their psyche

is a whole other ball game.



   

                   

You hired Darcy McGuire

to do what ?



   

                   

She hasn't done it on her own yet,

but somebody was gonna grab her.



   

                   

And she's smart, Nick.

She's very smart.



   

                   

You made her creative director,

didn't you ?



   

                   

Sorry. This isn 't easy, but l got

the board breathing down my neck.



   

                   

She's coming in this afternoon.

You'll meet her.



   

                   

- Come on. Roll with this.



   

                   

Work with her because she's got what

l need to keep this place a float.



   

                   

She's got what you need,

meaning she's a woman.



   

                   

You know how we can

compete with that ?



   

                   

He's coming. He's coming.

He's coming.



   

                   

Not so fast, girls.

Put it on ice.



   

                   

We'll break it out soon.



   

                   

We're not moving

to the   th floor ?



   

                   

Not today.



   

                   

- oh.

- okay, Gigi, one more.



   

                   

Gigi, your ex is here.



   

                   

Honey, you look like...

$   million.



   

                   

Thank you.



   

                   

- May l kiss the bride ?

- Sure.



   

                   

- Nick.

- Nick ! Ted.



   

                   

Congratulations, Ted.

You're a lucky man.



   

                   

Well, thanks.

l happen to agree.



   

                   

So, you're going on a cruise.

Two weeks, huh ?



   

                   

Well, actually, the cruise

is just the last week.



   

                   

Alexandra has an itinerary,

and l faxed one...



   

                   

to your office yesterday,

to your apartment last week.



   

                   

Ted's offiice has one,

as does the school.



   

                   

-ln case l've fallen off the planet?

-You never know.



   

                   

Hey, here she is. Pretty in pink.

So, two whole weeks together?



   

                   

- Yeah, how you gonna handle it ?

- l'm gonna love it.



   

                   

You can take care of your old man.

Cook for me. Get my slippers.



   

                   

- Yeah, that'll be happening.

- Alexandra has a boyfriend now.



   

                   

- Mom !

- So he won't be surprised.



   

                   

You have a boyfriend ?

You're only    years old.



   

                   

Am l ?

l thought l Was   .



   

                   

We're gonna be fine.



   

                   

Look, l wanna meet Cameron.



   

                   

- okay if l meet Dad at his place ?

- ls it all right ?



   

                   

- Yeah, Well, l--

- What time ?



   

                   

 ..  .  ..   maybe ?



   

                   

-  :  .

- Okay.



   

                   

- Bye, Mom.

- oh, honey. l'm gonna miss you.



   

                   

l'm gonna miss you too.

Ted, have a good time.



   

                   

- Bye, pumpkin.

- Bye.



   

                   

- Nick.

- Honey.



   

                   

Later.



   

                   

Yeah,  :  's fiine.

Thanks for asking.



   

                   

And the name's Dad.



   

                   

- Here you go.

- Thanks.



   

                   

-Hey, l heard. l can't believe this.

-My next headache.



   

                   

Don't worry.

We'll get through it.



   

                   

Yeah.



   

                   

Everyone, everyone, meet Darcy McGuire.



   

                   

- oh, jeez.



   

                   

- My goodness. Everybody showed up.

- Darcy, how are you ?



   

                   

- Nice to see you. Hi !

- Pleasant surprise.



   

                   

- God, what a small world.

- Welcome aboard.



   

                   

l'm so glad to meet you.



   

                   

Hello. l'm Darcy.



   

                   

Hi. l'm Nick Marshall.



   

                   

oh, l've heard

a lot about you, Nick.



   

                   

-l've heard a lot about you too.

-Don't worry, can't all be true.



   

                   

Let's hope not.



   

                   

Hey.



   

                   

Hey, standing room only.

lt's a first.



   

                   

l'm very, very excited for you all

to meet Darcy McGuire.



   

                   

-Darcy's extraordinary reputation...



   

                   

as a leader in the field

precedes her.



   

                   

At B.B.D. & O., Darcy led

a creative team...



   

                   

that snagged $    million

in new business wins.



   

                   

And that was

just last year alone.



   

                   

At Sloane-Curtis, we've prided

our selves on our strategic thinking.



   

                   

Now it's time for us to step up

and prove ourselves creatively...



   

                   

in the marketplace.



   

                   

And 'm thrilled that Darcy

has consented to move across town,



   

                   

join our team and lead us

into the    st century.



   

                   

Thank you, Dan.



   

                   

And thank you all

for that warm welcome.



   

                   

Let me start off by saying

the feeling is mutual.



   

                   

l am absolutely

thrilled to be here.



   

                   

When l first started

in this business, it was my dream...



   

                   

to work at Sloane-Curtis.



   

                   

l even believe l applied

for a job here twice.



   

                   

- Somebody call personnel.



   

                   

But it was B.B.D. & O.

that offered me a home.



   

                   

And what l learned there

was that any success l had...



   

                   

Was a direct result of the team

of people that l work with.



   

                   

l know that two heads

are better than one.



   

                   

l know that five heads

are better than two.



   

                   

Andl know that if we put our heads

and our hearts into this company,



   

                   

we will deliver,

l know that.



   

                   

Now, l love challenges.

l love hard work.



   

                   

l look forward to sitting at this

very table tossing ideas around...



   

                   

until What l fear Will be

the Wee hours ofthe morning.



   

                   

l Want the Work We do

to say something about Who We are.



   

                   

- How we think, what we feel.

- l'm sorry.



   

                   

[ Coughs ]

Excuse me.



   

                   

So, as our friends in HollyWood say,

''Let's cut to the chase.''



   

                   

HoW are We gonna turn

this company around ?



   

                   

When Sears decided to go

after Women in their advertising...



   

                   

and said, ''Come see

the softer side ofSears,''



   

                   

their revenues

Went up    %.



   

                   

Thirty percent.

That's huge.



   

                   

Female-driven advertising

totalled$  billion lastyear.



   

                   

And Sloane-Curtis' share

ofthat Was ?



   

                   

Zero.



   

                   

lfyou Want to sell

an anti-Wrinkle cream...



   

                   

or a Ford Mustang

to a Woman-- forgive me--



   

                   

but this is the last place

you bring your business.



   

                   

And We can't afford to not have

a piece ofa $   billion pie.



   

                   

So, lhaveput together

a little kit foreverybody.



   

                   

Nobody panic.

This is supposed to be fun.



   

                   

Every product in this box

is looking for neW representation...



   

                   

right noW, and they're

all made for Women.



   

                   

l'mprettysure allthe women here

are familiar with theseproducts,



   

                   

so for the men let'sjust

briefly run through them.



   

                   

- [ Cracking Knuckles ]

- Here you go, Nick.



   

                   

Thankyou.



   

                   

Each kit contains

anti-Wrinkle cream,



   

                   

mascara,

moisturizing lipstick,



   

                   

bath beads,

quick-drynailpolish,



   

                   

an at-home waxing kit,

a more wonderful Wonderbra,



   

                   

- apregnancytest, hair volumizer,

- oh, sorry.



   

                   

pore cleansingstrips,

Advil,



   

                   

control-toppantyhose

anda Visa card.



   

                   

NoW l Want everybody

to come up With something--



   

                   

for one product, for tWo,

the Whole box-- Whatever moves you.



   

                   

We'llget togethertomorrow,

have a little show-and-tell.



   

                   

HoW's  :   for everybody ?



   

                   

Great. Seeyou at  ..  

tomorrowmorning.



   

                   

A nightmare.



   

                   

Read my lips--



   

                   

night-mare.



   

                   

- [ CroWd Cheering ]

- Miss, miss, miss !



   

                   

That's another     bucks.



   

                   

- [Switching Channels]

- Weplayourdangerousgame.



   

                   

A game ofchess...

against our old adversary.



   

                   

''Adversary'' ?

Surely you mean adversary, old boy ?



   

                   

Vinaigrette

for arugula salad.



   

                   

- ...Women's political caucus.

- Tuck thepelvis under. Lifting.



   

                   

[ lmpersonating Sean Connery ]

Buns ofsteel.



   

                   

l'd steal her buns

if l could.



   

                   

Here it comes.

Yes, he nailed the dismount !



   

                   

NoW let's check in

on the Women's fiinals.



   

                   

[ Grumbles ]

Women's fiinals.



   

                   

There's Way too much estrogen

on television these days.



   

                   

And as We all knoW,

the perfect antidote for estrogen...



   

                   

[ Grunts ]

is Frank.



   

                   

oh, l need some Frank.



   

                   

Help me, buddy.

Help me noW.



   

                   

This is supposed to be fun.



   

                   

l'm a professional.



   

                   

Lipstick. All right.



   

                   

Lipstick on a guy's collar ?

No, no, Women Will hate that.



   

                   

Lipstick on a guy's collar

that Won't rub off.



   

                   

No, that's even Worse.



   

                   

okay, okay, okay,

l gotta think like a broad.



   

                   

All right, l'm a broad.



   

                   

l see lipstick...

[ Sniffs ]



   

                   

on a dark-haired

Tahitian beauty,



   

                   

standing under a Waterfall,

Wearing nothing but a thong.



   

                   

Water cascading

doWn her back.



   

                   

l'm a lesbian.



   

                   

[ Scoffs ]

l gotta change the music.



   

                   

l Wonder. l Wonder.



   

                   

oh, Alex, thankyou.



   

                   

Ah, jackpot !



   

                   

oh, she's hot.



   

                   

Smooth, yeah, smooth.

oh, cool.



   

                   

WoW, mascara.

Here We go.



   

                   

[ Mumbles ]



   

                   

[ Sighs ]

Nice, thick lashes.



   

                   

oW ! oW ! Shit, that stings !

What the fu--



   

                   

okay, fiine. Well, l need

some anesthetic here.



   

                   

[ Exhales Deeply ]



   

                   

[ Gargles ]



   

                   

[ Burps ]

Beautiful.



   

                   

[ Sighs ]

okay. NoW...



   

                   

for the piece de resistance,

We have--



   

                   

We have the right leg.

Yes, excellent.



   

                   

And the hot, hot Wax.

Very hot Wax.



   

                   

Here We go.

[ Gasping ]



   

                   

Jeez ! ooh, that's hot.



   

                   

okay, test of manhood.

Here We go.



   

                   

okay, We passed.



   

                   

And next... We immediately apply

disposable cloth...



   

                   

over the Waxed... area.



   

                   

Straight ahead.



   

                   

Yes.



   

                   

Yeah... it feels

kinda nice, yeah.



   

                   

l don't knoW Why Women complain

about Waxing their legs.



   

                   

''ln one smooth motion,

yank the strip quickly...



   

                   

in the opposite direction

ofthe hair groWth.''



   

                   

No, no,

that Would be north.



   

                   

one, tWo, three.

[ Screams ]



   

                   

[ Gasping ]



   

                   

[ Scoffiing ]



   

                   

[Light Clangs]



   

                   

Women are insane.

Who Would do that more than once ?



   

                   

l don't knoW. Why Would

anybody even do the other leg ?



   

                   

Ah, yes,

that's right, girls.



   

                   

Wax it off

and cover it up.



   

                   

Yeah. Ally-oop !

ooh, Wait.



   

                   

oh, shit !

l guess this takes a little fiinesse.



   

                   

one doWn, tWo to go.

[ Chuckles ]



   

                   

[ Grunting ]



   

                   

okay. okay.



   

                   

okay.



   

                   

[ Clears Throat ]



   

                   

oh.



   

                   

Honey, you just lost

yourselffiive pounds.



   

                   

[ Chuckles ]

All right, Where's my Wonderbra ?



   

                   

oh.



   

                   

- [ Gasps ]

- Let's see Which end is up here.



   

                   

- Hi !

- What are you doing ?



   

                   

Exfoliating ?



   

                   

- Yo.

- You must be, um--



   

                   

Cameron, my boyfriend.

This is Nick.



   

                   

- Her father.

- That's nice nail polish you got.



   

                   

Yeah, l'm just doing a neW

research thing at Work, you knoW.



   

                   

- Get into the female psyche--

- Whatever.



   

                   

Yeah.



   

                   

l should probably

take off.



   

                   

- No, you don't have to.

- lt's cool. l'll see you later.



   

                   

- Bye.

- Bye.



   

                   

- l'llcallyou.

- Okay.



   

                   

Nice meeting you, eh ?



   

                   

Yeah.



   

                   

- Excuse me. Did you kiss that guy ?

- Where did you get this ?



   

                   

- Your zipper thing. You're kissing?

- You Went through my stuff !



   

                   

l needed some music.

lt Wasjust sitting there.



   

                   

What are you, allergic to listening?

You never listen When l talk.



   

                   

lf l'm stuck staying here, then

my stuff's gonna be around, okay ?



   

                   

ldon't wantyou tojust

go through everything.



   

                   

- l don't listen to you ?

- You thinkyou listen to me.



   

                   

- Yeah.

- You do ?



   

                   

What's my boyfriend's name ?



   

                   

Uh, it's--



   

                   

- Good night.

- No, no, Wait, come back.



   

                   

Dustin is his name.

Dustin, that's his name.



   

                   

Right ? No.

Don't slam the--



   

                   

C-Carson.



   

                   

Carmen. Carmine !

Carmine !



   

                   

- [DoorLocks]

- Carmichael !



   

                   

l can't remember a guy's name, they

fiigure you're not listening to them.



   

                   

[ Sighs ]



   

                   

What do Women Want ?



   

                   

l knoW it has three syllables.



   

                   

[ Hair Dryer Whirs ]



   

                   

Cameron.

His name is Cameron !



   

                   

Whoa !



   

                   

[ Panting ]



   

                   

oh,Jesus.

That's so dangerous.



   

                   

Ninety percent

ofall accidents happen--



   

                   

[Sirens Wailing]



   

                   

oh, What the hell

has he done noW ?



   

                   

l hope he's not dead.



   

                   

[ Groans ]

No, l'm fiine.



   

                   

[ Groans ]

l'm fiine, l think.



   

                   

Are you sure ?



   

                   

[ Shudders ]

No. Yes.



   

                   

[ Groaning ]



   

                   

Cleaner pores.

Thicker hair.



   

                   

Very Weird headache.

Really Weird.



   

                   

NoW l gotta clean up bras

and home pregnancy tests ?



   

                   

The man doesn't pay me enough

for the things l have to do.



   

                   

oh,Jesus,

he's Wearing panty hose ?



   

                   

NoW he's a cross-dresser ?



   

                   

l Wasjust experimenting With a feW

products from Work, all right ?



   

                   

- Did l say anything ?

- oh, God, it's  :   already.



   

                   

To sleep till  :  . He'd fiire

my ass if l Wasn't here to Wake him.



   

                   

WheW, are We

in a mood today.



   

                   

Same as every other day.



   

                   

Honey, make me a little bagel

with cream cheese.



   

                   

You knoW l can't think

on an empty stomach.



   

                   

Foryour information,

l'm not even hungry.



   

                   

Who said you Were ?



   

                   

- Mr. Marshall.

- Good morning, Flo.



   

                   

Let me get you

a cab, sir.



   

                   

Sure.



   

                   

- [ Whistles ]

- Thankyou, Flo.



   

                   

[ Thinking ]

You're Welcome, my little sWeet ass.



   

                   

What did you say ?



   

                   

Me ? Nothing.



   

                   

- You sure ?

- Yes, sir.



   

                   

[ GroWls To Herself]



   

                   

You knoW What ?

l think l'll Walk today.



   

                   

- l could use a little fresh air.

- Have a great day, sir...



   

                   

With your fiine ass

looking like Shaft !



   

                   

WheW ! l could just

ride that puppy !



   

                   

- [ Horn Honking ]

- [Man] Watch whereyou'regoing.



   

                   

- You okay, sir ?

- Fine. l'm fiine.



   

                   

Didlturn the coffeemakeroff?l

walkedover, but didlturn it off?



   

                   

lcan't remember. lsawthe light,

but didlturn theswitch off?



   

                   

-What ? What ?

-one kiss doesn't make me a lesbian.



   

                   

- Does it ?

- What ?



   

                   

- Hmm ?

- oh, sorry.



   

                   

Two slices oftoast,     calories,

plusa tab anda halfofbutter,



   

                   

Estrogen isgoodforthe heart

but badforthe breasts.



   

                   

- What ?

- My kid doesn't need Ritalin.



   

                   

- Get him to listen to What l say.

- Monsieur, l need to poop.



   

                   

[ Gasps ]

oh, boy !



   

                   

[ All Thinking At once ]



   

                   

- [ Elevator Bell Dings ]

- Aah !



   

                   

[ Screams ]



   

                   

oh, God,

he nearly killed me.



   

                   

Too badhe missed.



   

                   

- [ Beeping ]

- [ Door Buzzes ]



   

                   

- Good morning.

- Good mor--



   

                   

Don't look up. He'll make me

hear another disgustingjoke.



   

                   

He's such a schmuck.



   

                   

She thinks l'm a schmuck ?



   

                   

Whoa, lighten up

on that aftershave, buddy.



   

                   

Oh, what ? Oh, yeah,

likeyou'vegot theperfect body ?



   

                   

Jeez.



   

                   

- Hi, Mr. Marshall.

- No, no, don't say it.



   

                   

What ? l Was going to tell you

the Gillette budget's on your desk.



   

                   

And l Went out last night and

got you that Merlot that you Wanted.



   

                   

Here's

your credit card back.



   

                   

Thankyou.



   

                   

- You okay ?

- Me ? Yeah.



   

                   

Doyou realize that lhave

an lvyLeague education...



   

                   

andthat runningyourstupid

errandshasput me into therapy ?



   

                   

Take meseriouslyandgive me

some real work to do.



   

                   

Oh, yeah, lremember why.

Because lhave a vagina !



   

                   

- Aah !

- Anything else l can get foryou ?



   

                   

Oh, good, you're on time.



   

                   

- Morning.

- You look a little different.



   

                   

You knoW, l think

maybe it's his hair.



   

                   

- lt looks thicker, doesn't it ?

- Gimme your coat.



   

                   

- oh, oh, okay.

- Mmm, you smell good today.



   

                   

- NeW cologne ?

- No.



   

                   

Th-That's it ?

No other thoughts ?



   

                   

- What do you mean ?

- You feeling all right, doll ?



   

                   

[ Mumbling ]



   

                   

''Linens, linings,

loans, locks.''



   

                   

- [Mumbling]

- Hello, Nick ?



   

                   

Uh, Nick ?

We gotta go.



   

                   

What are you doing ?

lt's  :  .



   

                   

Can't go. Gotta fiind a doctor.

Need a cure. Can't go.



   

                   

- Defiinitely can't go.

- You sound like the guy from Shine.



   

                   

- What's Wrong With you ?

- l don't need a doctor.



   

                   

Maybe l need,

like, an exorcist.



   

                   

Under ''E''forexorcist.



   

                   

There are no exorcists

in the greater Chicago area.



   

                   

Let's pull it together and sell

some sensitive feminine shit, okay ?



   

                   

Sorry to interrupt.

Here you go.



   

                   

[ Panting ]



   

                   

By the Way, your hair looks

really good today, Mr. Marshall.



   

                   

[ Thinking ] And it's okay

you pay me minimum Wage...



   

                   

because l use the company phone

to call my boyfriend in lsrael...



   

                   

for an hour.



   

                   

Tell me you heard that.



   

                   

Your hair looks really good.

So What ?



   

                   

The-- The other thing !

What she Was thinking thing.



   

                   

l don't think she thinks too much.

She's not exactly a genius.



   

                   

l'll have you knoW she Went

to an lvy League school.



   

                   

- Doubt that.

- The thing about the boyfriend,



   

                   

calling him in lsrael,

you heard that, yes, no ?



   

                   

l didn't hear it

'cause she didn't say it.



   

                   

Pullit together. We'regonna

be late foroursororitymeeting.



   

                   

Morgan, in case l, like,

maybe die today--



   

                   

Can We Walk ? 'Cause in case

you live, l don't Wanna be late.



   

                   

Here's What happened,

just in case the coroner asks.



   

                   

l got drunk, and l tried on

all the products from the pink box.



   

                   

- You did not.

- l put on all the products--



   

                   

nail polish, panty hose,

everything.



   

                   

- You tried on the panty hose ?

- Yes, okay.



   

                   

AnyWay, l Was drying my hair,

and l fell over and tripped,



   

                   

fell into the bathtub

and electrocuted myself.



   

                   

l blacked out,

and When l Woke up...



   

                   

l could hear What every Woman

around me Was... thinking.



   

                   

- Uh-huh.

- Talking personal, private stuff.



   

                   

The stuffthat nobody is

supposed to hear, l hear that stuff.



   

                   

You knoW What l'm saying ?

l can hear What Women think.



   

                   

Can you ? Good, 'cause that's not

a talent guys have these days.



   

                   

You don't believe me.

You Want me to prove it ?



   

                   

-See thisattorneycoming toward us?

-Yeah.



   

                   

oh, she thinks

you're overpaid and gay.



   

                   

- What ?

- l hear What they're all thinking.



   

                   

lt's driving me crazy. Even

French poodles, l can hear them.



   

                   

So We're on the same page,

l need you to knoW you sound insane.



   

                   

You freaked out over losing

thejob, Which l understand.



   

                   

But ifyou tell anybody you can hear

the thoughts ofa French poodle--



   

                   

What ifljumpedout the window?

Jumpedthrough theplateglass.



   

                   

Would they notice ? Probably not

if l didn't get glass on anybody.



   

                   

That girl With the fruit is funny.

Suicidal, but she is funny.



   

                   

Nick, What girl

With the fruit ?



   

                   

- The--

- Huh ?



   

                   

Last one to arrive.

Wants me to knoW l'm not his boss.



   

                   

okay, you're a star.

l get the message.



   

                   

She thinks l'm late because l Want

her to knoW she's not my boss.



   

                   

- What is she talking about ?

- Put a lid on it. l'm begging you.



   

                   

ooh, l can't believe

l have butterflies in my stomach.



   

                   

Feels like

the fiirst day ofschool.



   

                   

Okay, so let'ssee

how we did.



   

                   

[Thinking]

Nobody wants togo first.



   

                   

Everyone'savoidingme,

except NickMarshall.



   

                   

Unbelievable. The only one

With good eye contact.



   

                   

At least he's lookingat my eyes

andnot down myblouse.



   

                   

- Nick, What did you come up With ?

- Me ?



   

                   

What did l come up With ?

[ Chuckles ]



   

                   

He's so Wired.



   

                   

Mostly...

[ Clears Throat ]



   

                   

l thought about

the moisturizing lipstick,



   

                   

never having Worn

lipstick myself.



   

                   

l tried to imagine What l'd Want

from a lipstick, if l Were a Woman.



   

                   

- oh, spare me.

- okay, he's trying to be honest.



   

                   

You knoW,

to be perfectly honest,



   

                   

l thought ofa Tahitian beauty,

bathing under a Waterfall.



   

                   

oy, l'm gonna die here

With these kinds of ideas.



   

                   

But, uh, you knoW, l'm

Working on it, and it's evolving.



   

                   

Anybody interested in an idea

involving the SWedish bikini team ?



   

                   

l do knoW them all

personally.



   

                   

- oh, What an idiot.

-Jerk, groW up already.



   

                   

- What apig.

- You are so foul.



   

                   

l should have asked

for more money. Gina ?



   

                   

l spent the night trying to fiigure

out hoW to sell Advil just to Women.



   

                   

You know what ?

Youshouldsellit to women like me.



   

                   

[Giggles]



   

                   

l take it every time

l need to fake a headache.



   

                   

Works like a charm.



   

                   

l-l got a great one.

ltjust came to me.



   

                   

- Do you mind if l interrupt, Dina ?

- Sure, go ahead.



   

                   

l hate that

you've seen me naked.



   

                   

[ Chuckles ]

All right.



   

                   

So, we're in a bedroom,

the lightsare out.



   

                   

There's a Woman in bed,

and she's taking an Advil.



   

                   

Her husband suggestively

rubs her back, and We say, ''Advil.



   

                   

''So mild and gentle,

you can take it...



   

                   

even When you're

faking a headache.''



   

                   

[ Laughter ]



   

                   

Woman turns to herhusbandandsays,

''Not tonight, lneedanAdvil. ''



   

                   

- He's back.

- [ Laughs ]



   

                   

What ? Come on. That doesn't

reach Women on a personal level ?



   

                   

- No.

- Women do that, don't they ?



   

                   

- ldon't.

- No ?



   

                   

Sue Cranston, you've done that,

haven't you ? Faked a headache to--



   

                   

No, Nick, l haven't.

Thanks for asking.



   

                   

No, Wait, Wait, Wait.

Be honest noW.



   

                   

l mean, you've been married

What, ten, tWelve years ?



   

                   

You've neverfakeda headache ?

lt doesn 't work like a charm ?



   

                   

No, Nick, l haven't.



   

                   

l mean, no, it doesn't,

okay ? Jeez.



   

                   

- [ Thinking ] What an asshole !

- l guess l'm off base here.



   

                   

What's good is you're looking at

Advil from a Woman's point ofvieW.



   

                   

Um, l don't think Advil

Will go for it,



   

                   

and l'm pretty sure every Woman

in America Will hate it.



   

                   

other than that,

l thought it Was great.



   

                   

You're on the right track.

Hang in there. Go ahead.



   

                   

Great antenna there, babe.

The poodle give you that one ?



   

                   

- What are you doing home early ?

- l have my fiirst migraine.



   

                   

This is hideous. My boyfriend

feeling me up in front of my father.



   

                   

Don't think anything. The outlook

Wasn't good for the Mudville Nine.



   

                   

- Thescore wasfourto two.

- oh, shit. Where's my bra ?



   

                   

- Where is it ?

- oh, God.



   

                   

oh, God !



   

                   

okay, look. Everybody

just needs to chill out here.



   

                   

There'll be no chilling.

Just get your stuff... and move on.



   

                   

Come on, man. Relax.



   

                   

- HoW old are you ?

- l just turned    .



   

                   

Well, she's    .

She Was     fiive years ago.



   

                   

You knoW What l'm saying,

stud ? NoW get out.



   

                   

Dad ! [ Thinking ] We're going

to the prom. Don't ruin it.



   

                   

- You're not going With this punk.

- HoW did you knoW about prom ?



   

                   

Look, l don't knoW.

Mom told me, all right ?



   

                   

lt's not gonna happen

because he's too old foryou.



   

                   

l knoW What boys Want, and he's not

getting it from my daughter. Door.



   

                   

Your daughter ?

Suddenly, l'm your daughter.



   

                   

- HoW am l related to this asshole ?

- Another one.



   

                   

- l Want Mom.

- Look, l'mjustgonna take off.



   

                   

- l'm realsorryabout this.

- Save it.



   

                   

That's mine.



   

                   

Where-- Where are you--



   

                   

[ Sighs ]



   

                   

Great day.



   

                   

[Thunderclap]



   

                   

Okay, l'm not losing

mymind.



   

                   

- [ Screams ]

- [Thunderclap]



   

                   

[Thunderclap]



   

                   

Come on !

Do your thing !



   

                   

Turn me into me again !



   

                   

[ Hair Dryer Whirring ]



   

                   

oh, good, l'm not dead.



   

                   

[ Panting ]

oh, please !



   

                   

Please, please, please.

Tell me l got rid of it.



   

                   

- [ Beeping ]

- Please be a Woman. Please.



   

                   

- For What city, please ?

- You couldn't do me a favor...



   

                   

and think ofyour favorite color

or TV program, could you ?



   

                   

For What city, please ?



   

                   

[ Sighs ]



   

                   

Flo ? Hey, Flo !



   

                   

- Flo ?

- [Siren Wailing]



   

                   

l can't believe this.



   

                   

l need a Woman.



   

                   

-Trythis one.

-Oh, llove this. This is fantastic.



   

                   

oh, it's my mother's birthday

next Week, so l need tWo gift sets.



   

                   

You've been agreat help.

lappreciate it.



   

                   

Do you have a Kleenex back there

so l can Wipe that off ?



   

                   

l'm sure she'lllike it.

lt's one ofourbestsellers.



   

                   

- Do l get a free gift With this ?

- Yes, youget a travelbag.



   

                   

Thankyou.

[ Chuckles ]



   

                   

Stop it. You'vegot the dress.

Treatyourselfto lipstick.



   

                   

- No, l have enough at home.

- You might as wellget one, right ?



   

                   

l have too many lipsticks. l have

piles ofthem. l don't need it.



   

                   

- l'llbuy it foryou.

- lfhe doesn 't answerin two rings,



   

                   

- l sWear to God !

- Hi, blue eyes.



   

                   

[ Women Thinking

Simultaneously ]



   

                   

[ Nick Screaming ]



   

                   

[ Buzzing ]



   

                   

- Dr., you may not remember me.

- Yes ?



   

                   

l'm Nick Marshall. l came here about

ten years ago With my ex-Wife, Gigi.



   

                   

- [ Thinking ] oh, Christ, not him.

- oh, good, you remember me.



   

                   

l'm sorry to barge in like this,

but l don't knoW Who to turn to.



   

                   

l'm afraid to go to Work.

l'm afraid of my door Woman.



   

                   

l'm-- l'm afraid

to get a cup ofcoffee.



   

                   

Mr. Marshall,

please sloW doWn. SloW doWn.



   

                   

Let me make sure l completely

understand What it is you're saying.



   

                   

[ Sighs ]

All right. All right.



   

                   

l hear What Women think.



   

                   

Yeah. You knoW,

Mr. Marshall,



   

                   

this kind of imaginary

displacement scenario...



   

                   

- l'm not imag--

- really isn 't mything.



   

                   

l do, hoWever, have a very good

friend over at University Hospital,



   

                   

who specializes in male menopause

andtestosterone depletion.



   

                   

She's fabulous. l think What l'll do

isjust give her a ring...



   

                   

andsendyou overthere.



   

                   

Why did l ansWer my door ? l Was so

into buying that lamp on eBay.



   

                   

- HoW much Was it going for ?

- HoW much Was What going for ?



   

                   

The lamp on eBay.



   

                   

oh, l see. That's good.

Very clever.



   

                   

- Dr. Skolnick, please.

- You don't believe me. Try another.



   

                   

Go on. Pick a number.

Give it a Whirl. Any number.



   

                   

okay. A number

betWeen one and--



   

                   

- A million. Why not ?

- One anda million.



   

                   

All right.



   

                   

Mm.



   

                   

      --   --   .



   

                   

Wanna make a decision here ?



   

                   

- Oy vay!

- oh, you can say that again.



   

                   

- l didn't say anything.

- Doesn't mean l didn't hear it.



   

                   

okay. okay. Let's say--

Let's say l do believe you.



   

                   

- Yeah.

- You can hear What Women think.



   

                   

Even though l'm a groWn

Woman of... [ Thinking ]    .



   

                   

-   .

- oh, my lips are sealed.



   

                   

Holy crap !

oh, forgive me.



   

                   

- That's all right.

- But this is phenomenal.



   

                   

- You can hear inside my head.

- Yes.



   

                   

Why Would you Want to get rid

ofsuch a brilliant gift ?



   

                   

Well, for starters,



   

                   

almost every Woman l knoW

thinks l'm an asshole.



   

                   

- What l thought When l met you.

- Doc, give me a break here.



   

                   

Mr. Marshall, you might

fiind this a little unorthodox,



   

                   

but Would you mind

aWfully if l smoked ?



   

                   

- No, no, l understand.

- Thankyou. Thankyou so much.



   

                   

[ Coughs ]



   

                   

Let's try to look at

the up side ofthis, shall We ?



   

                   

You knoW, Freud died at age   

still asking one question,



   

                   

''What do Women Want ?''



   

                   

Wouldn 't it bestrange and wonderful

ifyou were the one man on Earth...



   

                   

fiinally able to ansWer

that question ?



   

                   

Listen to me, Nick.

Something extraordinary...



   

                   

and l think miraculous

has happened to you.



   

                   

My advice is

you must learn from this.



   

                   

You knoW, there isn't

a single Woman that l treat...



   

                   

that doesn't Wish her man

understood her better.



   

                   

lf men are from Mars and Women are

from Venus and you speak Venusian,



   

                   

the worldcan beyours.



   

                   

l don't knoW hoW this

happened to you or Why,



   

                   

but you mayjust be

the luckiest man on Earth.



   

                   

lmagine thepossibilities.



   

                   

lfyou know

what women want,



   

                   

you can rule.



   

                   

[ No Audible Dialogue ]



   

                   

[ Thinking ] Hubba-hubba, here he

comes, looking aWfully good today.



   

                   

And l haven't had sex

in four months. okay, six.



   

                   

Why didltellhim to stop

askingme out ?l'm an idiot!



   

                   

- ldiot ! ldiot !

- [ Chuckling ]



   

                   

Hey, Nick, hoW's it going ?



   

                   

Lola, my love.

l can't take no for an ansWer.



   

                   

- About What ?

- About What ?



   

                   

[ Chuckles ]

About us.



   

                   

Just don't hurt me, Nick.

l've been hurt too many times.



   

                   

l knoW hoW hard it is

to go out With someone neW.



   

                   

l mean, there's alWays

that fear of,



   

                   

Well, getting hurt.



   

                   

- At least that's hoW l feel inside.

- You do, really ?



   

                   

- [ Sighs ] All the time.

- Me, too, all the time.



   

                   

Let'sjust take it sloW

and see hoW it goes.



   

                   

SloW is good.



   

                   

SloW is really good.



   

                   

- Yeah.

- Are you free tonight ?



   

                   

So, you don't think l'm gay ?

You're saying you never said that ?



   

                   

- l never said that.

- Doesn't mean you didn't think it.



   

                   

ls it the hair ? The highlights

happen to be natural.



   

                   

- Morgan, l have a meeting.

- You don't think l'm overpaid?



   

                   

- You never said that.

- l don't think l ever said that.



   

                   

okay.



   

                   

[ Thinking ]

Who has he been talking to ?



   

                   

- Morning.

- Morning.



   

                   

Well, then checkyourE-mail.

lsent it over--



   

                   

Hi, Annie.

HoW's the boyfriend in lsrael ?



   

                   

l Want to thankyou

for picking up that Wine.



   

                   

That's above and beyond.

l appreciate it so much. Thankyou.



   

                   

Uh, can l get you

a cup ofcoffee or, um,



   

                   

some water

orany kindofbeverage ?



   

                   

No, but thankyou. lf l'm thirsty,

l knoW Where the coffee room is.



   

                   

That's right, guys, don't help.

Just Walk right past me.



   

                   

Why don't you step on

my hands, you big--



   

                   

- Here you go. HoW you doing ?

- oh.



   

                   

oh, fiine.

Thankyou, Mr. Marshall.



   

                   

- You're Welcome, um--

- Erin.



   

                   

Erin. You be careful,

all right, Erin ?



   

                   

Yeah, sure.



   

                   

Heavy.



   

                   

What do you knoW ?

There is life on this planet.



   

                   

Breakfast Tuesdaysoundsgreat.

Absolutely.



   

                   

Thanks forthe info.

Andthanks forthe champagne.



   

                   

You too.

Okay, bye-bye.



   

                   

Set meeting, Nike,

Women's division.



   

                   

- Hi.

- Hi.



   

                   

Well, you've been here fiive minutes.

Looks like you've been here a year.



   

                   

oh, yeah. l'm compulsive.

lt's a problem.



   

                   

[Thinking] Why do lalways

feellike he's checkingme out ?



   

                   

l Wonder What he's got

up his sleeve.



   

                   

- Great photographs.

- No clue they're all Bourke-White.



   

                   

They're not all Margaret

Bourke-White, are they ?



   

                   

Yeah, they are.



   

                   

WoW. lt's

a beautiful collection.



   

                   

- Thanks. So hoW's it going ?

- Mmm.



   

                   

You knoW, l Was gonna

askyou the same thing.



   

                   

lt's starting sloW.



   

                   

- l'm evaluating staff, that's hard.

- oh, yeah.



   

                   

Yeah, right.



   

                   

Well, you knoW, l don't

Wanna beat around the bush.



   

                   

- What l'd like to propose--

- He's proposing so soon ?



   

                   

- oh, sorry. Sorry. [ Chuckles ]

- oh !



   

                   

- Uh, yes--

- Excuse me.



   

                   

- You got another one. WoW !

- [Darcy] Thanks.



   

                   

[ Chuckling ]

As l Was saying,



   

                   

lknownothingabout theproducts

you'regoing forpersonally,



   

                   

but l do believe

l can sell anything...



   

                   

once lknow

what the buyer'sneedsare.



   

                   

And What l'd really like,

With your kind indulgence ofcourse,



   

                   

is togo after

that reallybig fish.



   

                   

l mean, the one

you really Wanna land.



   

                   

l'll learn What l need to knoW,

and l'll reel them in for us.



   

                   

No, actually, l think

l'll reel them in for us.



   

                   

That is, unlessyou'regoingafter

something inparticularyourself.



   

                   

No. lt'sjust that there're several

big fiish out there at the moment.



   

                   

oh, yeah ?

Well, What's your biggest fiish ?



   

                   

To your mind,

Who's your Whale ?



   

                   

Um, Nike--

Women's division ?



   

                   

You heard

they Were shopping ?



   

                   

l got Wind of it.



   

                   

- Amazing. l heard no one kneW.

- You kneW.



   

                   

- l heard no one else kneW.

- lt's okay if l knoW What you knoW.



   

                   

- We're on thesame team. Besides,

- Yeah.



   

                   

l heard someone say once

tWo heads are better than one--



   

                   

- oh, you Were listening.

- More than you knoW.



   

                   

okay,

here's What l heard.



   

                   

Nike is shopping,

quietly.



   

                   

But ifthey make a change,

it's gonna happen fast.



   

                   

NoW, you knoW this is

a tough one for us to get.



   

                   

lt Would be a tough one for anybody

to get, but ifWe got it--



   

                   

- That's all We'd need.

- l hearyou.



   

                   

So, What do they Want

exactly ?



   

                   

They Wanna empoWer Women.



   

                   

- What ?

- l'm sorry.



   

                   

- That Won't Work.

- No, okay. l'm sorry.



   

                   

- l understand. Go on.

- They Wanna get in Women's heads...



   

                   

and reach them

on a very real level.



   

                   

Don't take this Wrong, but you got

jumpy talking about lipstick.



   

                   

- l knoW.

- Nike is hard-core Woman poWer.



   

                   

You sure you Wanna

go after this one ?



   

                   

You get 'em here in tWo Weeks,

l'll be ready.



   

                   

[ Chuckles ]

This guy is kind ofexciting.



   

                   

Hey !

Glad l caught you both.



   

                   

- You got a minute ?

- Sure.



   

                   

l Want you to look at these boards

for U.S. Air before they come by.



   

                   

- Right.

- lt feels likesomething'smissing.



   

                   

Hmm. l don't like

the graphics.



   

                   

Feels a bit parochial.



   

                   

Maybe it should be

in black and White.



   

                   

- What do you think, Nick ?

- l don't knoW Who you've had,



   

                   

but, l don't knoW,

it seems kind of--



   

                   

What's the Word ?

Parochial to me.



   

                   

Um, What do you think,

Darcy ?



   

                   

l totally agree,

especially about the graphics.



   

                   

They're parochial.

lt's so funny you just said that.



   

                   

Yeah ?



   

                   

Why don'tyouget them to

tryit in blackand white ?



   

                   

Might punch it up

a little.



   

                   

What ?

Did you say something ?



   

                   

No. l just sWear l Was

thinking the exact same thing.



   

                   

[ Weak Chuckle ]

Were you ?



   

                   

Black and White could really help.

Good idea, Nick.



   

                   

Good idea, Nick ?

Speak up. Quick.



   

                   

- Say something before he leaves.

- Uh, Dan ?



   

                   

Want me to lookat the boards ? Once

theyhave a stab, give me a buzz.



   

                   

- l Will. Thanks, buddy.

- Dan ?



   

                   

ln case they findNick's idea

too retro, which theymight--



   

                   

-oh, yeah.

-they may think it's old-fashioned--



   

                   

l'd be ready With some--

maybe a dot com kind ofthing ?



   

                   

Maybe there's something about

getting on-line at the airport.



   

                   

No, l think We're fiine, really.

Really, We're good.



   

                   

- l like Nick's fiix on this.

- Great.



   

                   

Hey, you Wanna come by later ? l got

a box of neW Cubans, just came in.



   

                   

- Great.

- Cool.



   

                   

You smoke cigars ?



   

                   

No.



   

                   

You knoW, your offiice

is looking really snazzy.



   

                   

- l love the red.

- Thanks.



   

                   

Mr. Marshall,

your daughter's on line one.



   

                   

- oh. l'm sorry. Would you mind--

- oh. Here you go.



   

                   

He has a daughter ?

Didn't picture that. HoW old ?



   

                   

She's    . She's staying With me

While her mom's aWay.



   

                   

- He's married ?

- AWay on her honeymoon.



   

                   

- oh.

- Alex, hi.



   

                   

Uh-huh. oh, sure, honey.

No, that's great.



   

                   

''Honey'' ?

Who are you trying to impress ?



   

                   

okay, look, l'm gonna go out

With my friends after school.



   

                   

Then can l bring them back to your

place, or Will you freak out again ?



   

                   

No, no, no, no.

No problem. Whateveryou Want.



   

                   

- What time are you gonna be home ?

- Wait for me !



   

                   

- l don't knoW. l gotta go.

-  :  's fiine.



   

                   

lloveyou too.

Bye, sweetie.



   

                   

Total shocker.

He's like a nice guy.



   

                   

- Sorry, duty calls.

- oh, ofcourse.



   

                   

- She's    ?

- Yeah. Got a boyfriend that's    .



   

                   

- And you hate that, right ?

- [ Groans ] Hate it.



   

                   

Yeah. Butshe digshim,

andhe's invitedherto theprom.



   

                   

- That's a big deal, l guess.

- The prom is about the dress.



   

                   

- You knowthat, right ? Oh, yeah.

- ls it ?



   

                   

once you got the dress handled,

it's all doWnhill from there.



   

                   

This feels like a date. Why did l

go into all that ? He needs to go.



   

                   

Well, l'm out of here.



   

                   

Do some research doWntoWn,

get inside Women's heads.



   

                   

- Well, ifyou need any help--

- l'll be picking your brain.



   

                   

- You got it.

- l'll take it.



   

                   

oh, God.

Candy.



   

                   

She Won't last a month.



   

                   

oh, l like that one, but it says

you can't Wear it ifyou have hips.



   

                   

-That one's cute.

-lt's loW-cut. l can't Wear loW-cut.



   

                   

- [NickKnockingAt Door]Alex ?

- lt's open.



   

                   

What ? Say something.



   

                   

Uh, hi.

l'm Alex's dad, Nick.



   

                   

- Hi.

- Hi.



   

                   

- Deadbeat.

- Mr. No-Food-in-the-House.



   

                   

[Girl#  Thinking]

Forgot herbirthday.



   

                   

Why is hejust standing there ?



   

                   

oh, l-l just Wanted

to let you knoW that l Was home...



   

                   

and that l got sort ofa date

later on tonight, so l'm going out.



   

                   

But l'll be home early. Hey,

Why don't you guys order a pizza ?



   

                   

There'snot a scrap offood

in thejoint.



   

                   

l also Wanted to knoW if maybe you

and l could go out on a date soon ?



   

                   

l'd like to take you shopping

for a prom dress.



   

                   

oh, that is so sWeet.



   

                   

l Wish my dad Would do

something like that.



   

                   

- [Girl#  Thinking]llove him.

- [Alex] ldon'tget it.



   

                   

First, you throW Cameron out.



   

                   

NoW you Wanna take me shopping

so l can go to the prom With him ?



   

                   

l overreacted, and l just Wanna make

up for it by taking you shopping.



   

                   

lmean, it'sapretty

important thing, you know ?



   

                   

They say it's all doWnhill

after the dress.



   

                   

He must be stoned.

Fine.



   

                   

l'll get the most expensive dress,

shoes, makeup. He can afford it.



   

                   

And What the hell.

Let's go crazy.



   

                   

While We're at it, We'll get you

neW makeup, shoes, the Works.



   

                   

- What do you say ?

- Fine, Whatever.



   

                   

Whatever meaning ''yes.''

Yes ?



   

                   

Yes.



   

                   

Great. Nice to have met you tWo.

l hope to see you again soon.



   

                   

- Defiinitely.

- Bye, Mr. Marshall.



   

                   

- Love the apartment.

- Great vieW.



   

                   

Thankyou.

oh, okay.



   

                   

l gotta tell ya, l'm not

usually like this on a fiirst date.



   

                   

lt'sjust... you've been

so amazing all night.



   

                   

- You've been so sensitive...

- oh, Well--



   

                   

and so understanding and--



   

                   

Hey.



   

                   

- You Wanna come up ?

- oh, yeah.



   

                   

l can't believe l asked him up.

Am l ready for him to come up ?



   

                   

lf l sleep With him, he'll think

l'm a slut and never call me again.



   

                   

or he'll call me all the time 'cause

he'll think he can get it Whenever.



   

                   

oh, What's the difference ?

He's so incredible !



   

                   

He reminds me of my sister.



   

                   

- So, What do you think ?

- Well, l--



    

                   

l'll only come up

ifyou really Want me to.



    

                   

l don't Want you to do anything

you're not ready for.



    

                   

- l can Wait.

- [ Squeals ]



    

                   

But-- Whoa !



    

                   

What's With the tongue ? l'm

gonna need the Heimlich maneuver.



    

                   

Thankyou.



    

                   

ooh.



    

                   

- ouch ! Right, they're attached.

- l'm sorry.



    

                   

oh !

NoW We're talkin'.



    

                   

Uh-huh.

oh.



    

                   

okay.

Lied about the grande.



    

                   

[ Groans ]



    

                   

Would you mind ifWe had

the lights on, maybe ?



    

                   

- No, you Want the light on ?

- Yeah, it might help.



    

                   

okay, if it'll help.



    

                   

God, l hope he's better

With the light on.



    

                   

He's so all over the place.

Just do it so l can start faking it.



    

                   

ls Britney Spears

on Leno tonight ?



    

                   

[ Panting ]



    

                   

- You okay ?

- Well--



    

                   

Yeah, l'm just fiine.



    

                   

What--

What happened ?



    

                   

Shaking--



    

                   

[ Groans ]



    

                   

okay. All right.



    

                   

NoW, let's pull this

together, buddy.



    

                   

l mean,

this is What We do.



    

                   

- You okay ?

- Yeah.



    

                   

Just regrouping.



    

                   

- [ Chuckling ]

- Lola ?



    

                   

- l can do this better.

- Wanna bet ?



    

                   

Yeah.



    

                   

[Train Passing By]



    

                   

[Moaning]



    

                   

Amazing !

Amazing.



    

                   

oh ! lt Was like...



    

                   

you Were more inside of me

than anybody ever !



    

                   

- [ Panting ]

- Well, thanks, doll.



    

                   

- l tried.

- No, no.



    

                   

- l mean, more inside my head.

- oh.



    

                   

Like, you kneW What l Wanted

and hoW l Wanted it.



    

                   

We connected in a Way

that Was beyond--



    

                   

beyond--



    

                   

oh, my heart !



    

                   

My heart is beating

so hard.



    

                   

[ Thinking ]

Who Would've thought ? SloW starter,



    

                   

then turns out to be

a genius in bed.



    

                   

Ladies and gentlemen,

Nick Marshall is a sex god !



    

                   

oh, yeah.



    

                   

Ha !

l love it.



    

                   

[ All Laughing ]



    

                   

okay, that Was a--

one more. Time for one more.



    

                   

okay, you knoW Why guys like

doing it in front ofthe mirror ?



    

                   

- Why ?

- objects may appear larger.



    

                   

- That's a good one. AnyWay.

- oh, that's a good one.



    

                   

l heard that in

the beauty shop this morning.



    

                   

- But seriously. Dee ?

- Huh ?



    

                   

That other thing We Were

talking about before.



    

                   

Come on. l mean, he can't

just ignore you all night,



    

                   

stay glued to the TV

like some zombie...



    

                   

and then expect you

to turn it on like a lightbulb.



    

                   

l mean, l Wouldn't

put up With that.



    

                   

l mean, you're either

interesting oryou're not.



    

                   

Ask him to decide.



    

                   

- Can l Write that doWn ?

- All right.



    

                   

l'm either interesting

or l'm not. He'll shit a brick.



    

                   

Hmm.

What if he says l'm not ?



    

                   

He Won't say

that you're not.



    

                   

Trust me.



    

                   

okay, l did it.



    

                   

l told Chaim

l Wasn't moving to lsrael.



    

                   

Yeah, good.

And ?



    

                   

l said What you said.

He can be a Writer anyWhere.



    

                   

lf l'm going to be in advertising,

l need to be here and not there.



    

                   

[ Whistles ]

And then he said ?



    

                   

- l don't knoW. lt Was in HebreW.

- ooh.



    

                   

But l don't think it Was,

''You got it. See you next Tuesday.''



    

                   

l don't knoW. l'd Wait it out.

He'll call you.



    

                   

l can't.

l better call him back.



    

                   

Be strong.

He Will call you.



    

                   

Well, girls, been nice chattin'.

l gotta get back to Work.



    

                   

[ All Chattering ]



    

                   

- Can l make you a sandWich ?

- No, l'm cool.



    

                   

Really.



    

                   

But thankyou, anyWay.

This Was fun.



    

                   

[ All ]

AWW !



    

                   

[ Thinking ]

Huh. This is good.



    

                   

More insightful

than l Would've thought.



    

                   

This line doesn't feel

exactly right.



    

                   

lfyou're thinking that line isn't

perfect, l agree. lt needs Work.



    

                   

There's something not exactly

right about it, isn't there ?



    

                   

l mean, it's not bad. lt's

insightful, actually. lt'sjust--



    

                   

Well, what doyou think

this woman's thinking ?



    

                   

Uh, Well, l--



    

                   

Let's see.



    

                   

Uh, she's thinking about

What she Wants out of life.



    

                   

What's she gonna accomplish ?

HoW's she gonna do all that ?



    

                   

Women, you knoW,

they think about that a lot.



    

                   

l mean,

surprisingly a lot.



    

                   

They Worry all the time

about everything.



    

                   

You're so right.

HoW do you knoW that ?



    

                   

Well, you knoW,

even l had a mother.



    

                   

[ Chuckles ]

Well--



    

                   

So maybe running gives her

time offfrom all ofthat.



    

                   

lt gives her something she can't

get anyplace else. Look at her.



    

                   

God.

l Want to be her.



    

                   

She looks so free,

doesn't she ?



    

                   

No one'sjudging her,

no boss to Worry about,



    

                   

no guys to Worry about,

no games to fiigure her Way through.



    

                   

l like that.

No games. That's good.



    

                   

That'd be nice in life,

Wouldn't it ?



    

                   

okay, can l just think

for one second ?



    

                   

- Take your time.

- okay.



    

                   

okay.



    

                   

No games.

HoW do l get that in ?



    

                   

She's running.

lt's early, it's quiet.



    

                   

Just the sound of her feet

on the asphalt.



    

                   

She likes to run alone.

No pressure, no stress.



    

                   

This is the one place

she can be herself.



    

                   

Look any Way she Wants,

dress, think any Way she Wants.



    

                   

Nogameplaying, no rules.

Games, sports, rules.



    

                   

Games, sports, rules.

Playing by the rules.



    

                   

Playinggames versusplaying--



    

                   

Playing by the rules.

Playing games versus playing--



    

                   

- Why are you nodding ?

- Because you're onto something.



    

                   

- Am l ?

- Aren't you ?



    

                   

Well, l Was thinking about

a play on Words.



    

                   

Something about games versus--



    

                   

l feel like

l Was onto something good.



    

                   

- Playinggames versusplaying--

- Sports ?



    

                   

Yes ! Thankyou.

Do you like any ofthis ?



    

                   

A lot. l like the idea that you can

be yourselfon the road.



    

                   

l do too.

Did l say that out loud ?



    

                   

[ Stammering ]

No, l Wasjust--



    

                   

'Cause l Was circling around

the exact same thing,



    

                   

-Which is great, We're on the same--

-Yeah.



    

                   

Sorry, l'm not thinking straight.

My glands may be sWollen.



    

                   

Maybe they should be more sWollen.

You're doing great. Nike. No games.



    

                   

Just sports.



    

                   

- oh.

- You should Write that doWn.



    

                   

All right.



    

                   

Did he come up With that,

or did l ?



    

                   

Boy, can l be--



    

                   

What ?



    

                   

Uh, Well,

can l be honest With you ?



    

                   

Please do.



    

                   

Before l came here, l heard you

Were a tough, chauvinistic prick.



    

                   

l didn't knoW you Were

gonna be that honest.



    

                   

- Sorry. l'm-- Sorry.

- No, that's all right.



    

                   

No, that's okay. You must have

looked so forward to meeting me.



    

                   

l Was dreading it. l had this Whole

other person built up in my mind.



    

                   

Well, since We're sharing,

l heard a feW things about you too.



    

                   

Yes, l'm sure. l'm the ''man-eating

bitch Darth Vader'' ofthe ad World.



    

                   

Verbatim.



    

                   

Really ? All right.

Well, nice to meet you.



    

                   

That's not Who l am at all.



    

                   

Just for the record,

l don't think that's Who you are.



    

                   

l don't.



    

                   

Thankyou.

l appreciate that.



    

                   

See, no games equals

embarrassing moment.



    

                   

Don't fall for a guy at Work.

Don't fall for a guy at Work.



    

                   

- Don't fallforaguyat work.

- Why ?



    

                   

Why What ?



    

                   

Why Won't-- Why don't l just

Work on these storyboards...



    

                   

and then bring them back around

to you tomorroW ifyou're free.



    

                   

l'm free.

Just call me anytime.



    

                   

l'm flirting.

What's wrong with me ?



    

                   

God ! l just looked at his penis.

l hope he didn't see me.



    

                   

oh, shit ! l just looked

at it again ! Stop it !



    

                   

- Are you all right ?

- Fine. l got something in my eye.



    

                   

Allright, um--

So, great.



    

                   

So tomorroW Will be--

That'll be great. l'll see you then.



    

                   

- Uh, good Work by the Way.

- You too.



    

                   

- You sure you're all right ?

- Yeah, l'm fiine.



    

                   

- Yeah.

- Good.



    

                   

l didn't think anyone else

Was still here.



    

                   

- l didn't knoW anyone Was here.

- What time is it ?



    

                   

lt's after    :  .



    

                   

- l didn't realize it Was so late.

- [ Thinking ] l feel so alone.



    

                   

Um-- l didn't catch that.

Sorry ?



    

                   

- l didn't realize hoW late it Was.

- And l'm glad you're here.



    

                   

l'm stuck.

lfeelso alone.



    

                   

- You Want a hand With this ?

- No, thanks. l'm okay.



    

                   

Yeah, l'm not buying it.

What's going on ?



    

                   

Well, l have an early meeting

tomorroW With Dan,



    

                   

andl wantedto make it

laterso lcouldbe moreprepared.



    

                   

But then you slipped in there

and took the only time he had left,



    

                   

Which left me With

 :    tomorroW morning.



    

                   

lt's fiine. l'm just not

as ready as l Wish l Was.



    

                   

- Sorry.

- You didn't do it on purpose.



    

                   

[Coughs]



    

                   

l just don't Want him

to be disappointed.



    

                   

Hey, Why don't We go through

some ofthese together ?



    

                   

- Really ?

- l insist.



    

                   

- Unless you're too tired.

- oh, no.



    

                   

- l'm not tired.

- Yeah, l can see that.



    

                   

lt'sjust so far beyond

tired at this point.



    

                   

l've basically stopped sleeping

ever since l took thisjob.



    

                   

- You have ?

- Yeah, it's Weird.



    

                   

l, um--

[ Thinking ] HoW do l say this ?



    

                   

You don't feel quite

like yourself here, do you ?



    

                   

No, l don't.

Not yet, anyWay.



    

                   

Boy.



    

                   

Plus, l'm mad

that l'm getting sick.



    

                   

l never, ever get sick.

ln fact,



    

                   

you don't have to sit

so close to me ifyou don't Want to.



    

                   

No, come here.

l'll brave it.



    

                   

So, Where do We kick off ?



    

                   

- Control-top panty hose ?

- okay.



    

                   

Personally, l think

they do the trick.



    

                   

You've Worn

control-top panty hose ?



    

                   

- Did you put a pair in the box ?

- Seriously ?



    

                   

oh, yeah.



    

                   

- You are full ofsurprises.

- Yeah.



    

                   

No, no, no. l mean that

as a compliment. l love that.



    

                   

- And hoW did you look in them ?

- ooh. Hot.



    

                   

My daughter and her boyfriend

Walked in, and l got 'em on With--



    

                   

And they said What When

they saW you in your panty hose ?



    

                   

lt Was the turquoise Wonderbra

they noticed. Then, the nail polish.



    

                   

[ lndistinct ]



    

                   

[Alex] The dress

youpickedout is totallyhideous.



    

                   

- l'm not coming out.

- lt can't be that bad. Come on out.



    

                   

l look like a nun--

an ugly nun.



    

                   

Why ? Because it's gray ?

Gray is the neW black.



    

                   

lf he says he likes it,

l'll die.



    

                   

okay, next.



    

                   

This, l love.



    

                   

Thankyou.

Next.



    

                   

l think this is the one.



    

                   

l like that--

No, l love that.



    

                   

okay, this is it.



    

                   

Let me take a look.



    

                   

Yes !

l look older.



    

                   

This is great.

oh, God, l need boobs.



    

                   

oh, l'll buy a padded bra

When he's not around.



    

                   

l can't believe this is What l'll be

Wearing the last night l'm a virgin.



    

                   

- or What l'll be taking off.

- [ Yells ]



    

                   

- Alex ?

- Hmm ?



    

                   

l Wanna talk to you about something

that's pretty important.



    

                   

- l've never talked to you about--

- oh, God.



    

                   

He's actually gonna try

to be a dad.



    

                   

This should be hilarious.



    

                   

l realize l haven't been

the perfect dad.



    

                   

[ Thinking ] Understatement ofthe

century. Can you pass the bread ?



    

                   

Yeah, sure, sure. But that does

not mean l don't have the right...



    

                   

to talk to you about--

about--



    

                   

- [ Clears Throat ]

- About ?



    

                   

Allright.

You're ayoung woman now,



    

                   

and you may be flirting

With the idea of-of--



    

                   

Having sex ?



    

                   

Um, can l get a lemonade,

please ?



    

                   

Well, you knoW, boys and girls

think very differently about sex.



    

                   

Myhunch isgirlsjust wantguys

to like 'em andhang out with 'em.



    

                   

Whereasguys--

Andnot allguys, allright ?



    

                   

But most guys, they pretty much

just Wanna have sex.



    

                   

okay, l'm--

What l'm trying to say here is,



    

                   

l don't Want you

to feel pressured...



    

                   

- becauseyourboyfriend's older.

- Please. Save it.



    

                   

Mom hadthis talk with me

when l was, like,    .



    

                   

You're supposed to have sex When

you're in love and it's special.



    

                   

- lknoweverything.

- [ Coughs ]



    

                   

And Mom knoWs me for real

and knoWs my friends and Cameron,



    

                   

so let's leave the parental

talks up to her, okay ?



    

                   

- l promised Cameron l'd do it.

- oh, jeez.



    

                   

And also, let's not make me

part ofthis Nick makeover...



    

                   

or Whatever this neW thing

you're into is, okay ?



    

                   

- What neW thing ?

- What neW thing ?



    

                   

This ridiculous neW guy

you're trying to be.



    

                   

CloWning around With me ?

Asking ifWe can make a salad ?



    

                   

Watch Friends together ?



    

                   

l mean, it's nuts

after     years of no relating.



    

                   

l mean, come on.



    

                   

Who are you to talk about

relationships anyWay ?



    

                   

You never had a real relationship

With anyone in your entire life.



    

                   

Look, l'm supposed

to meet my friends.



    

                   

- So l'm gonna go, okay ?

- Sure.



    

                   

Thanks for the dress.



    

                   

[Woman Thinking]

She didn 't even finish herlunch.



    

                   

Johnny-come-lately,

givingheradvice ?



    

                   

- Oh, teenagers.

- l think the talk Worked.



    

                   

- She's totally right.

- Move on, dude. lt's over.



    

                   

[ Groans ]

Please.



    

                   

NoW you've seen hoW

the cake is assembled.



    

                   

The next time you admire a Wedding

cake, you'll be able to appreciate--



    

                   

WoW.

lt looks so gorgeous.



    

                   

- [ Announcer ] Fit, vibrant hair.

- oh.



    

                   

l hated being overweight. l alWays

Wanted to be thin and pretty...



    

                   

and Wear cute little clothes.



    

                   

lt built andit built,

andmyhealth deteriorated.



    

                   

Andlcouldn 't walk

andlcouldn 'tstand...



    

                   

to even stand up at the park for

ten minutes While my kids played.



    

                   

ltriedsitting on theswings, and

the chains cut myhipsandit hurt.



    

                   

Andlcouldn 't--

lcouldn 't run andlcouldn 't move.



    

                   

And l Was tired

and l Wanted to be a good mom.



    

                   

[ Sobbing ]



    

                   

- What the hell's Wrong With me ?

- [Telephone Ringing]



    

                   

- Hello ?

- [ Thinking ] What am l doing ?



    

                   

- [TVShuts Off]

- Darcy ?



    

                   

HoW did you knoW it Was me ?

l didn't say anything.



    

                   

l, uh, just sensed it.



    

                   

Shit. l'm such an idiot.

l didn't think he'd be there.



    

                   

- Excuse me ?

- l didn't mean to really call you.



    

                   

l had your number here,

and l Was thinking ofyou.



    

                   

Thinking ofcalling you.



    

                   

obviously,

l did call you.



    

                   

oh, no, that's all right.

l, uh--



    

                   

l Was thinking about you too.



    

                   

Well, here's to another

great idea.



    

                   

- What, ''Let's meet for a drink'' ?

- Yes.



    

                   

- Yeah ?

- Exactly What l Wanted to say.



    

                   

Sometimes l think

you're a bit ofa mind reader.



    

                   

But l don't have to be

a mind reader With you.



    

                   

- Hmm.

- You alWays say What you think.



    

                   

- l knoW. lt's a curse.

- What--



    

                   

- Are you kidding ?

lt's a relief-- an enormous relief.



    

                   

Do you knoW hoW rare that is

to actually say What you think ?



    

                   

Do you have any idea hoW rare it is

for someone to actually like that ?



    

                   

Trust me, this has not been

a great thing in my life.



    

                   

My ex-husband didn't love me.

Let'sjust put it that Way.



    

                   

He didn't love you ?



    

                   

Did l just say that ?



    

                   

oh, God !

[ Laughs ]



    

                   

Um, l meant to say ''it.''

He didn't love it--



    

                   

that l spoke my mind.



    

                   

lfyou Wanna knoW the truth,

l'm not sure he did really love me.



    

                   

- ooh.

- There's a conversation starter.



    

                   

God. A smart person Would

just get so very drunk noW.



    

                   

HoW long

Were you married ?



    

                   

A little less than a year.



    

                   

l've been divorced about nine

months noW. We Worked together.



    

                   

- You knoW that, right ?

- oh, yeah. l kneW that.



    

                   

- l heard it.

- Hmm.



    

                   

- What Was that like ?

- lt Was great in the beginning.



    

                   

But it changed.

lt became competitive.



    

                   

Suddenly, the better l did,

the Worse We did.



    

                   

The price l pay

for being me.



    

                   

- l knoW that noW. No, truly.

- [ Chuckles ]



    

                   

- oh.

- No, no, it's true.



    

                   

Do you Wanna knoW

all this about me ?



    

                   

Keep going.



    

                   

Well, that's Why l needed

to get out there on my oWn,



    

                   

as scary as it Was.



    

                   

l mean, not scary,

but, um--



    

                   

Well, yeah,

l Was kind ofscared.



    

                   

- Why ?

- l don't knoW.



    

                   

l guess l Wasn't sure

l could do thejob.



    

                   

l mean,

l thought l could do it,



    

                   

but l'm fiinding Sloane-Curtis

a tougher place than l thought.



    

                   

l'm sorry.



    

                   

- l knoW you Were up for myjob.

- No.



    

                   

- l'm sorry l'm the one that got it.

- l'm-l'm not. l'm not.



    

                   

- l've learned a lot from you.

- Like What ?



    

                   

Like What ? For starters,

you really love What you do.



    

                   

- You really love What you do.

- Not as much as you do.



    

                   

HoW can you say that ?

You're so great at it.



    

                   

You're so great at it.



    

                   

l think Dan's even Wondering

Why he hired me. Really.



    

                   

l think the bloom

is defiinitely offthe rose.



    

                   

You Wanna hear something

really great ?



    

                   

Yeah.



    

                   

l just closed escroW on

my fiirst apartment ever.



    

                   

Finally, l oWn my oWn place.



    

                   

- What? l Wish l Was a mind reader.

- No.



    

                   

l Wasjust thinking...



    

                   

hoW men like me

can get so screWed up.



    

                   

l don't think

there are men like you.



    

                   

lfWe kissed,

Would it ruin everything ?



    

                   

Listen to me.



    

                   

l think...



    

                   

you are one of

the great Women.



    

                   

l really do.



    

                   

l'm sorry.



    

                   

But l just meant to say

thankyou.



    

                   

l'm so sorry.



    

                   

Well, l, uh,

guess l'll see you...



    

                   

in, let's see,

three and a half hours.



    

                   

Nick, may l just say...



    

                   

you are an exceptionally

great kisser.



    

                   

No, l mean

really, really great.



    

                   

Well, l haven't had

this much fun making out since--



    

                   

l've never had

this much fun making out.



    

                   

Me either.



    

                   

- Don't let this get Weird at Work ?

- No.



    

                   

We have nothing

to be embarrassed about.



    

                   

We made out.

You and l made out.



    

                   

- And if l may, it Was--

- Sexy as hell.



    

                   

God. That'sjust What

l Was about to say.



    

                   

But l think l said it fiirst,

l think.



    

                   

- oh, no, you did.

- oh.



    

                   

Um, Well,

all right, then.



    

                   

oh, l'm a groWn Woman.

Just say it.



    

                   

Do you Want to come back

to my place ?



    

                   

Say it !

Do you Want to come--



    

                   

Good night, Darcy.



    

                   

Good night.



    

                   

Good night.



    

                   

What am l doing ?



    

                   

Lola.



    

                   

lt's okay. okay.

Here he comes.



    

                   

- [Lola Muttering, lndistinct]

- Lola ?



    

                   

l knoW l haven't

heard from you.



    

                   

Lola, hoW long

have you been out here ?



    

                   

Just a feW... hours.



    

                   

Nick, you said that

you Wouldn't hurt me.



    

                   

And then you slept With me, and then

you didn't call me for six days.



    

                   

So that, in the World of me,

that's torture.



    

                   

l mean, We have this totally

unbelievable, life-altering sex,



    

                   

and then

you just disappear.



    

                   

l mean, you-you-you

stopped drinking coffee !



    

                   

Lola, l'm so sorry.



    

                   

lt's okay.



    

                   

lt's okay, because

l fiigured out your little secret.



    

                   

- You did ?

- lt's so obvious.



    

                   

HoW else Would you knoW

the things that you knoW ?



    

                   

- lt Wasn't obvious to anybody else.

- Nick, come on.



    

                   

You're so sensitive.

You're so aWare of my feelings.



    

                   

You're so tuned in.



    

                   

You talk to me like a Woman,

you think like a Woman.



    

                   

Nick ! Come on ! Admit it.

You're totally and completely gay.



    

                   

- l am ?

- You're not ?



    

                   

oh ! l mean, ifyou're not,

you gotta tell me.



    

                   

Basedon the othernight--

Justput me out ofmymisery.



    

                   

Are you or aren't you ?



    

                   

Sayyou're gay. Then l'm not nuts.

l'm not undesirable.



    

                   

Not rejected by another guy !

Say it ! Say you're gay ! Admit it !



    

                   

okay.



    

                   

l'm gay.



    

                   

HoW gay ?



    

                   

oh !

l'm as gay as it gets.



    

                   

You're gonna make some guy

very happy someday.



    

                   

oh, from your lips.



    

                   

God, l hate that

l'm crying.



    

                   

Well, look it.



    

                   

lfthings should ever change

in that department--



    

                   

- You'll be the fiirst to knoW.

- You promise ?



    

                   

oh, yeah, l promise.

Come here.



    

                   

oh, boy.



    

                   

-lt Was very nice meeting you, Nick.

-And you.



    

                   

Thanks for pep talk, yes ?



    

                   

You tWojust

take care ofeach other.



    

                   

- And thanks for the yarmulke.

- oh, no problem.



    

                   

- You Wear it Well, yes ?

- Happy trails, kids.



    

                   

- lsn't he great ?

- Darcy !



    

                   

l need to talk to you.



    

                   

Uh-oh, look at him.

l kneW it. He is Weird about it.



    

                   

This is not about last night.

lt's about the Nike meeting.



    

                   

And l honestly believe

in my gut...



    

                   

- that you should make the pitch.

- oh, God.



    

                   

-l guilted you into this last night.

-No, no.



    

                   

- lt Would be better ifyou did it.

- No, no, no.



    

                   

This is your baby.

You've gotta do it.



    

                   

l gotta go meet and greet

these folks. l'll see you in there.



    

                   

- lt's not my baby.

- Yes, it is.



    

                   

l predict no one Will even knoW l'm

gone until the fiiles start to build.



    

                   

lt could be days.



    

                   

And then someone

Will fiinally ask,



    

                   

''Where's the geek in the glasses

Who carries all the fiiles ?''



    

                   

Do either ofyou tWo knoW What

the story is on this Erin girl ?



    

                   

- Miss Lonely Hearts ? Who knoWs ?

- Yeah.



    

                   

ooh, l knoW.

She's been here tWo years.



    

                   

She triedto be a copywriter

butgot turneddown.



    

                   

- So she got stuck as a messenger.

- What fool turned her doWn ?



    

                   

You did, sire.



    

                   

Well, did l ever

meet With her at least ?



    

                   

l don't think so. As l recall,

you told me to ''bloW her off.''



    

                   

Well, l Wanna meet

With her noW.



    

                   

The kid's got something.

She's kind offunny.



    

                   

This is your lucky day. l just saW

the Nike group get offthe elevator.



    

                   

All Women. Your specialty.

Come on. l'll Walkyou up.



    

                   

l hate What l'm doing to Darcy.

l hate it !



    

                   

l'm gonna Write her

a long letter, confess everything.



    

                   

- You're doing Darcy ? Since When ?

- No !



    

                   

l said l hate What

l'm doing to Darcy.



    

                   

- Men are stupider. lt's true.

- Will you stop it ?



    

                   

- They are.

- ''They'' ? Are you a Woman noW ?



    

                   

oh, l Wish. A Woman Wouldn't have

screWed over the Woman she loved.



    

                   

No, they don't think that Way.

And another thing.



    

                   

- This thing about penis envy.

- Yeah.



    

                   

Not true. No.

They don't envy it.



    

                   

Halfof'em

don't even like it.



    

                   

You knoW Who has

penis envy ? We do.



    

                   

That's Why We cheat

and screW up and lie,



    

                   

because We're all obsessed

With our oWn equipment.



    

                   

- You ready ? okay.

- Yeah.



    

                   

Thanks.



    

                   

[Nick] You don'tstandin front

ofa mirrorbefore a run...



    

                   

and wonder what the road

willthink ofyouroutfit.



    

                   

You don't have to listen to its

jokes and pretend they're funny.



    

                   

lt wouldnot be easierto run

ifyou dressedsexier.



    

                   

The road doesn't notice

ifyou're not Wearing lipstick.



    

                   

lt doesnot care

howoldyou are.



    

                   

You do not feel

uncomfortable...



    

                   

because you make more money

than the road.



    

                   

Andyou can callon the road

wheneveryou feellike it,



    

                   

whetherit'sbeen a day...



    

                   

or even a couple of hours

since your last date.



    

                   

The only thing

the road cares about...



    

                   

is thatyoupay it a visit

once in a while.



    

                   

Nike.

Nogames.



    

                   

Just sports.



    

                   

- [Woman Thinking]He nailedit.

- They hit a home run.



    

                   

[Woman #  Thinking]

Where do we sign ?



    

                   

Why are you not the happiest guy

in Chicago right noW ?



    

                   

You just did so great.



    

                   

No, no, l didn't do so great.

We did so--



    

                   

No, actually,

you did so great.



    

                   

- You.

- You, me.



    

                   

We did great !



    

                   

Will you come With me someplace ?

l Wanna shoW you something.



    

                   

- l have something l need to fiinish.

- Please ?



    

                   

Please.



    

                   

okay.

Here you go.



    

                   

- Come With me.

- All right.



    

                   

-Should l close my eyes or anything?

-No.



    

                   

So, you see those top

tWo floors right there ?



    

                   

l do.



    

                   

- All mine.

- WoW.



    

                   

Come here.



    

                   

So this is my--



    

                   

living room.



    

                   

lt's beautiful.



    

                   

What are you thinking ?



    

                   

You've got that look

you have sometimes.



    

                   

Yeah ? No. l Wasjust Wondering

When you get to move in.



    

                   

Well, they said

tWo Weeks, so--



    

                   

okay.

This is the dining room.



    

                   

- The fiireplace Works. Come here.

- WoW.



    

                   

l can see elegant parties in here.

Waiters With caviar,



    

                   

- you in a beautiful goWn.

- You can see all that ?



    

                   

Maybe you're naked and l'm the only

guest, but it'd still be elegant.



    

                   

okay.

So this is upstairs.



    

                   

There's a second bedroom

or a future offiice or Whatever.



    

                   

Your boudoir comes With

pretty decent music.



    

                   

lt does.



    

                   

Where is that coming from ?



    

                   

Let's turn up the volume.



    

                   

So, Where's your bed going ?



    

                   

Uh, right... here.



    

                   

So, ifyou had a bed,



    

                   

We'd be dancing on it.



    

                   

l like it here.



    

                   

l like it here too.



    

                   

No. l mean,

l like it here.



    

                   

oh.



    

                   

[ThunderRumbling]



    

                   

[Dan]Believe me, we're

as excitedasyou are.



    

                   

- Dan ? l gotta talk to you.

- Yeah ?



    

                   

He'll be there. Bye. l gotta

talk to you too. That Was Nike.



    

                   

They're gonna announce to the trades

that We Won the account.



    

                   

l gotta hand it to you. You saved

my ass. You saved the company's ass.



    

                   

Actually, Dan, l had very little

to do With saving anybody's ass.



    

                   

lt's Darcy you should be thanking,

that's What l Want to talk about.



    

                   

Darcy ? Please. l Was there.

The girl didn't open her mouth.



    

                   

Look, l'm a big enough man

to admit When l screW up.



    

                   

llookedat the marketplace

andlpanicked.



    

                   

Nick, forgive me.

l Want you to step in here.



    

                   

No, no, no, no. Dan, you did

the right thing When you hired her.



    

                   

l mean, she is the best creative

director l have ever seen, bar none.



    

                   

- This isn't about-- She's adorable.

- oh, yeah, she is.



    

                   

- But this isn't about that ?

- No, no. Not like that. No, no.



    

                   

Please. Look.



    

                   

l've been doing

a lot of listening lately.



    

                   

And l've decided...

l need to take a leave ofabsence.



    

                   

l need to get aWay from here

and get some perspective on things.



    

                   

What are you, nuts ? What is this ?

What do you mean ?



    

                   

This is the biggest account

this company has ever landed.



    

                   

Do you Want me to have

nobody running the shop ?



    

                   

What are you talking about ?

Darcy's here.



    

                   

For somebody Who listens a lot,

you don't hear so Well.



    

                   

l had a meeting With her today.

l sat her doWn.



    

                   

- We had a talk.

- oh, Dan ! You didn't.



    

                   

- Tell me you didn't fiire her.

- She didn't even put up a fiight.



    

                   

- oh, Dan, no !

- Hey, she's gone, pal.



    

                   

No, no. lt's not too late.

Look, call her.



    

                   

Tell heryou need her back,

you made a mistake. Hire her back.



    

                   

- Hey, calm doWn. l can't do that.

- Why ?



    

                   

Because l talked to the board and l

told them l don't need her anymore.



    

                   

- oh !

- They offered her a settlement.



    

                   

Besides, Nike says they Want you.

You're What they bought.



    

                   

- [ Groans ]

- l got a delivery-- Can l--



    

                   

Would you come out for one second ?

Let me tell you something.



    

                   

Myjob is to deliveryou.



    

                   

Dan, Nike bought an idea.

lt Wasn't even mine.



    

                   

Every good idea that they loved

yesterday came from her.



    

                   

And ifyou don't get Darcy McGuire

back in here, and l mean pronto,



    

                   

the board is gonna be

paying you your settlement.



    

                   

This is all about

saving your ass, right ?



    

                   

Save it.



    

                   

Annie, get a hold of Darcy's address

and number as quick as possible.



    

                   

- Yeah, sure.

- Where's the girl in glasses ?



    

                   

Erin ? l don't think

she's in today.



    

                   

- Did she call in sick ?

- l don't think so. Didn't shoW up.



    

                   

oh, Where does she live ?



    

                   

-Does anyone knoW Where Erin lives ?

-[Man] Who's Erin ?



    

                   

And then someone

Will fiinally ask,



    

                   

''Where's the geek in the glasses

Who carries all the fiiles ?''



    

                   

[ Whistling ]



    

                   

[ Cell Phone Ringing ]



    

                   

Hey. Yeah.

Did you get a hold of Darcy ?



    

                   

No ? Keep trying. And When you get

a hold of her, tell her to stay put.



    

                   

l'm coming right over. l just have

to make a little stop on the Way.



    

                   

Do you knoW Where this is ?



    

                   

DoWn the alley.



    

                   

Just doWn the alley.



    

                   

Thanks.



    

                   

- Come on, Erin. Be there. Please--

- [Cat Meows]



    

                   

Erin ?



    

                   

Hello ?



    

                   

[Cat Meows]



    

                   

No, no.



    

                   

Dear Mom--

[ Continues, lndistinct ]



    

                   

- [ Yells ]

- [ Screams ]



    

                   

Mr. Marshall !

Mr. Marshall ?



    

                   

Yes, Erin.

Yes, it's me.



    

                   

- [ Panting ]

- l'm sorry.



    

                   

l really did not mean

to scare you. okay ?



    

                   

l just Wanted to come

and see hoW you are.



    

                   

HoW are you ?



    

                   

Mr. Marshall, ifyou're here because

l didn't shoW up today, l'm sorry.



    

                   

l Wasjust about to call.

l sWear.



    

                   

No, l'm not here because

you didn't shoW up for Work.



    

                   

But l'm here--

Well, l--



    

                   

l bet you're Wondering

Why l am here, huh ?



    

                   

As a matter offact,

l Wasjust thinking that.



    

                   

l Was thinking, ''Why is Mr. Marshall

here in my bedroom ?''



    

                   

You Were...

thinking thatjust noW ?



    

                   

Yeah, in my head.



    

                   

l must have Water

in my ears or something.



    

                   

But you're, you knoW,

not thinking anything noW, are you ?



    

                   

l'm thinking a million things.



    

                   

Really ?



    

                   

Because, you knoW,

usually l can, uh--



    

                   

l can, uh--



    

                   

You are thinking something

right this minute ?



    

                   

Mr. Marshall, l am thinking

that you are crazier than l am.



    

                   

l think--



    

                   

l think l lost--



    

                   

lt's gone.



    

                   

l'm back.



    

                   

- l'm back.

- Mr. Marshall ?



    

                   

Yeah ?



    

                   

l'm sorry. ls there something

l can maybe do foryou ?



    

                   

No.



    

                   

No, Erin, uh--



    

                   

Actually, l came here to see if

l could do something foryou.



    

                   

- For me ?

- Yeah.



    

                   

See, the truth is--



    

                   

The truth--



    

                   

Erin, the truth is,



    

                   

l'm glad l got here before you

did anything to hurt yourself.



    

                   

What makes you think that

l Would, uh,



    

                   

do something

to hurt myself?



    

                   

l just sensed it.



    

                   

Really ?



    

                   

You could sense that ?



    

                   

Well, that's not--

That's not good.



    

                   

[Sobbing]



    

                   

Yeah. But the real reason

l'm here is because--



    

                   

Well, here's the thing. The real

reason l'm here is because--



    

                   

As you knoW

We have the Nike account,



    

                   

and We have a job opening

in our team.



    

                   

AndDarcyMcGuire andl,

we werejust discussing--



    

                   

really spitballing on Who could be

great enough to fiill that void.



    

                   

Suddenly, your name popped

into my head, and l remembered...



    

                   

that you once applied

for a job as a copyWriter.



    

                   

lthought l'dcome down here and

see ifyou werestillinterested.



    

                   

Didn't you try and meet With me

a While back ?



    

                   

Yeah, l tried, but you Were

unavailable, and then out oftoWn--



    

                   

Well, noW l'm available.



    

                   

And as you can plainly see

l'm in toWn,



    

                   

so l'm here

to take that meeting...



    

                   

ifyou're available.



    

                   

l'm available.



    

                   

l'm unbelievably available.



    

                   

[ Buzzing ]



    

                   

[Dialing]



    

                   

[ Ringing ]



    

                   

[Darcy OnAnswering Machine]

Hi, this isDarcyMcGuire.



    

                   

l'm not home right now,

soplease leave a message.



    

                   

- l'llget backassoon aslcan.

- [Beeps]



    

                   

Darcy ?

Hi, Darcy, it's Nick.



    

                   

Uh, l'm standing right outside

yourplace here.



    

                   

lsure wish lcouldfindyou,

get a holdofyou.



    

                   

Areyou allright ?

lhopeso.



    

                   

AnyWay, call me

When you get this.



    

                   

l'm on my cell.

Triple fiive,   - - - .



    

                   

l really need to talk to you.



    

                   

Uh--



    

                   

Just making sure

you're not there.



    

                   

You're not, right ?

No, l didn't think so.



    

                   

All right, so call me, please.

Please.



    

                   

Bye.



    

                   

[CellPhone Ringing]



    

                   

- Darcy ?

- [ Gigi ] No, it's me.



    

                   

Gigi ? Uh--

ls everything all right ?



    

                   

- Are you back in toWn already ?

- No, not until tomorroW.



    

                   

Alex called me three times

from a pay phone really upset.



    

                   

Then We got disconnected. What's

the matter ? lsn't she at the prom ?



    

                   

[ Sighs ]

The prom.



    

                   

Excuse me. Do you knoW

Where Alex Marshall is ?



    

                   

Little tenth grader ?

BroWn hair ? About this high ?



    

                   

l saW her in the ladies' room.

She's been there for, like, an hour.



    

                   

Alex, are you in here ?



    

                   

[AlexSobbing]



    

                   

Alex, it's me.



    

                   

[Scoffs]

What areyou doinghere ?



    

                   

oh, honey, l just--



    

                   

You knoW, l can't believe

that l screWed up.



    

                   

l Wasn't there When

you left for the prom.



    

                   

Yeah, well, that'snot whyl'm

in here, soyou canjustgo, okay ?



    

                   

oh, boy, l feel aWful.

Are you okay ? l mean, l--



    

                   

Come on out. Let me see

hoW you look, at least.



    

                   

- Come on.

- [Sobbing]llooklike crap !



    

                   

lalreadytookmyhairout

andeverything.



    

                   

So, you knoW,

What happened ?



    

                   

Well, ifltoldyou,

you'djust freak out, so--



    

                   

What have you got to lose ?

Try me.



    

                   

okay.



    

                   

Cameron and his friends,

they had this big plan.



    

                   

They rentedthishotelroom

and-and--



    

                   

lt Was like a suite.



    

                   

Basically, l promised him

that l Was gonna--



    

                   

lcan't believe l'mgonna

saythis toyou. [Sniffles]



    

                   

l promised him that

l Was gonna...



    

                   

sleep With him

after the prom.



    

                   

And like an hour ago,



    

                   

We Were on the dance floor

and l said,



    

                   

''l'm sorry, Cameron.

You knoW, l'm just not ready.''



    

                   

Good.

Good girl.



    

                   

- Dad, come on !

- l'm sorry, l'm sorry. Go on.



    

                   

Then he goes, ''Well, the limo,

the room and the tux,



    

                   

it allcost me    bucks. ''



    

                   

And l said,

''l'm sorry. l'm just not--''



    

                   

And he cuts me off

and he says,



    

                   

''l never should've asked a sophomore

to the prom. What a Waste.''



    

                   

Then two seconds later,



    

                   

he goes and meets up

With his old girlfriend...



    

                   

andstartsmaking out

with her.



    

                   

l mean, this disgusting slut

With a tongue ring.



    

                   

Andthen they were

laughingand--



    

                   

l just can't

go out there ever.



    

                   

- Oh, honey, l'm soproudofyou.

- Dad !



    

                   

- What areyou doing ?

- l'm sorry. l'm-l'm sorry.



    

                   

But l am.

And believe it or not,



    

                   

l knoW What it's like

to be a Woman.



    

                   

lmean, it'snot

as easyasit looks.



    

                   

You stood up foryourself. You knoW

hoW ahead ofthe game you are ?



    

                   

AnyWay, a guy that treats you like

that and talks to you like that,



    

                   

- he'snot--

- Worth my time. Yes, l knoW.



    

                   

- lt's true. He's not.

- He'sagameplayer, lhate that.



    

                   

You are so much smarter

than me.



    

                   

And look at you.



    

                   

That cloWn made out With a girl

With a tongue ring overyou ?



    

                   

Honey...



    

                   

you look beautiful.



    

                   

Thanks.



    

                   

Take me home, Dad.



    

                   

What am l doing ?

She's not in the refrigerator.



    

                   

l Wonder if it's too late

to go over there.



    

                   

No, it's not too late. lt's never

too late to do the right thing.



    

                   

That's What l'll do. l'll go over

there and l'll do the right thing.



    

                   

[lntercom Buzzing]



    

                   

Hello ?



    

                   

Uh, hi, it's me.

oh, l'm glad l found you.



    

                   

Uh--



    

                   

Can l come up ?



    

                   

Darcy ?

l need to--



    

                   

[DoorBuzzing]



    

                   

Hey.



    

                   

You need to What ?

lt's   :   in the morning.



    

                   

l need to talk to you.



    

                   

okay.



    

                   

Thanks.



    

                   

So, you sleep here noW ?



    

                   

l thought l might as Well give it a

try before l have to sell the place.



    

                   

Sell it ? You're not

selling the place.



    

                   

Can't afford to keep it.

l don't have a job.



    

                   

You knoW, you ought to try

returning some ofyour phone calls.



    

                   

- You got yourjob back.

- oh, do l ?



    

                   

- You're a riot. You knoW that ?

- lt's true.



    

                   

Dan told me so himself.



    

                   

Why Would he tell you that ? l

didn't do thejob he hired me to do.



    

                   

Even l don't blame him

for fiiring me.



    

                   

Look, l'm, uh--

You can come on in.



    

                   

l don't have any chairs,

but ifyou Wanna--



    

                   

What if l told you that...



    

                   

you did everything

that you Were hired to do--



    

                   

everything-- but that

someone Was sabotaging you ?



    

                   

Picking your brain,

sWiping your ideas and--



    

                   

Well, you-- you never

even kneW What hit you.



    

                   

- HoW is that possible ?

- oh, trust me, it's possible.



    

                   

Well, Who Would do

such an aWful thing ?



    

                   

l Would.



    

                   

l Was a dope

With a corner offiice.



    

                   

And When you came With thejob

l Was supposed to have,



    

                   

l mean, it didn't matter

to me that...



    

                   

you Were better at it than me

oryou earned it more than l did.



    

                   

As far as l Was concerned, it Was

mine, and l Was gonna get it back.



    

                   

So l took advantage ofyou

in the Worst possible Way.



    

                   

Have you ever done that ?



    

                   

Taken the Wrong road and--

No, ofcourse you haven't.



    

                   

You Wouldn't do that.

That'sjust--



    

                   

Somebody like me does that.



    

                   

And, uh--



    

                   

The problem With that Was that While

l Was digging the hole underyou...



    

                   

l found out

all about you.



    

                   

And the more l found out...



    

                   

the more you dazzled me.



    

                   

l mean, shook my World,

changed my life, dazzled me.



    

                   

And guys like that ex-husband

ofyours, he made you feel that...



    

                   

the price you pay

just for being you...



    

                   

is that you don't get

to have love.



    

                   

lsn't that What you Were

trying to say the other night ?



    

                   

That you Weren't complete ?

That you Weren't really a Winner ?



    

                   

Everything about you--



    

                   

hoW smart you are,

hoW good you are--



    

                   

everythingjust makes me

Want you even more.



    

                   

oh, WoW.

Boy.



    

                   

So it looks like l'm here

at   :   in the morning...



    

                   

being all heroic

trying to rescue you,



    

                   

but the truth is...



    

                   

l'm the one that needs

to be rescued here.



    

                   

l sure Wish

l could read your mind.



    

                   

Well, l Was thinking that, um,



    

                   

ifeverything you're saying

is true,



    

                   

if l really have

myjob back...



    

                   

then l thinkyou're fiired.



    

                   

Well, l never-- l never really

thought about it from that angle.



    

                   

Well, not that

l don't deserve it. l-do-do--



    

                   

l'm stuttering.



    

                   

NoW l feel kind of, uh,



    

                   

embarrassed that l told you

l needed to be rescued.



    

                   

But that's-that's fiine.



    

                   

That's it ?



    

                   

l don't Want that to be it.



    

                   

l don't Want that

to be it at all.



    

                   

Then don't let a little thing like

me fiiring you stand in your Way.



    

                   

l didn't know

What to react to first.



    

                   

Hey, neWs flash.



    

                   

l took the Wrong road.



    

                   

What kind of knight

in shining armor Would l be...



    

                   

ifthe man l love

needs rescuing...



    

                   

and l just let him

Walk out my door ?



    

                   

My hero.
